speaker_heading: BABY DRIVER
dialog: Written by
dialog: Edgar Wright
dialog: lst Draft Revisions - August 15th 2014
dialog: ii.
dialog: "You are the music while the music lasts."
dialog: T. S. Eliot
dialog: "I was born one dark gray morn, with music coming
dialog: in my ears..."
dialog: Paul Simon
text: Every scene in this film is driven by music.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - EARLY MORNING 1
text: A strip mall in the San Fernando Valley.
text: A front wheel of a car pulls slowly into view.
text: A curb reads ‘Short Stay. 5 Mins Only.’
scene_heading: INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS 2
text: Play is pressed on an iPod Classic. A rock track starts up.
dialog: It’s very loud. It’s awesome.
text: ‘Bellbottoms’ by the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion.
text: On high strings and a guitar stab we see the driver.
text: Young, baby faced. Short cropped hair. He wears mostly black.
text: Sports cheap gas station shades. This is BABY.
text: We can’t see his eyes, but his blank expression seems pretty
text: stoic. He listens to the track, stares out the windshield.
text: On a 2nd guitar stab we see a beefy (30s) tough guy in shotgun.
text: This is GRIFF. He too wears shades, black business clothes.
text: On a 3rd stab we see another black clad gentleman. (40s) He’s
text: handsome, but looks like he parties too hard. This is BUDDY.
text: On a final stab we see the last shades wearing black clad
text: passenger, a younger lady (20s) with her hair up. This is
text: DARLING. There’s a hint of trash beneath her business clothes.
text: The high strings crescendo. Griff flings his door wide open.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CAR/PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS 3
text: The track kicks in. We see the car is a shiny red Honda Civic
text: and note the door chimes are in time with the song.
text: Choppy strings play against guitar riffs as GRIFF gets out. We
text: see a shotgun partially concealed in his trench coat.
text: BUDDY and DARLING get out. We glimpse they are also armed. He
text: pops the trunk. Grabs two duffels. Hands one to Darling.
text: We see they all wear sneakers as they walk away from the car in
dialog: sync with the track. Again. It’s awesome. But we stay with-
text: BABY: our young driver. Hands fixed on the wheel. Ten to two.
text: Watching his colleagues disappearing inside a ‘CHASE’ bank.
text: The song pauses for two bars.
text: When it kicks back in, our driver suddenly drops the strong,
text: silent tough guy act and comes to glorious, joyous life.
text: Nodding his head. Swaying in his seat. Mouthing the vocals. A
text: slave to the rhythm. He doesn’t miss a beat. It’s cool, but-
text: He’s also like a big kid in front of his bedroom mirror. As he
text: drums on the dash, we see shoppers pass, other cars cruise by.
text: Baby is so immersed in the track, he flicks on the wipers. They
text: swipe across the dry glass in perfect sync.
text: A mother with a stroller passes. The infant inside notices Baby
text: rocking out in his car. Baby waves. The infant smiles.
text: Then he instinctively looks in his rear view. A BLACK & WHITE
text: POLICE CRUISER, sirens blaring, races up the street behind.
text: Baby turns to watch the police car drive up and past.
text: A pause in the music. The police car doesn’t return.
text: An urgent bass line. Baby looks to the bank. His goofy chair
text: dance is over. He’s stone faced and _all business again.
text: Over distorted guitars, our driver watches through partially
text: frosted windows. Sees his colleagues ordering staff to hit the
text: floor. Glimpses scared faces, the brandishing of weapons.
text: The song reaches an interlude; a vocal comes in and Baby lip
text: syncs every word as his eyes stay fixed on the bank.
speaker_heading: JON SPENCER (IN SONG)
dialog: “Thank you very much, ladies and
dialog: gentlemen.”
text: A snare hits. An ALARM sounds. Baby steels himself.
text: Military snares build like staccato machine gun fire. His
text: colleagues explode out of the bank, two bags full.
text: Baby revs in time with the snares as his colleagues get in. Our
text: driver glances at the bank sign. ‘CHASE’.
text: He pops the car into reverse. Stomps the gas, hard.
text: Snare drums crescendo. The car screams back through the tight
text: spaces between parked cars, makes a tight Rockford to face
text: forward. Baby drops into drive. Swerves wide onto -
scene_heading: EXT. THE STREETS OF LA - CONTINUOUS 4
speaker_heading: JON SPENCER
dialog: “T'm gonna daaaaance."
text: Baby's car sails into busy traffic, the track blasting on the
text: car stereo, building in speed and energy.
text: Despite the velocity of the getaway, our driver is calm at the
text: wheel, weaving through traffic like an android.
text: The other gang members lay low in their seats, shrug out of
text: their business attire. They trade looks as Baby swerves.
text: WOOP WOOP. One BLACK & WHITE cruiser screams the opposite way.
text: It zooms past, then makes a 180 behind them.
text: Baby sees the Black & White BEHIND. A light turns red AHEAD.
text: He FLOORS it through the stop light. Other drivers break hard
text: around him. Cars crash, rear end in time with kick drum hits.
text: The Black & White flies through the intersection, gaining.
text: Baby nears 70 mph, the track building with cracking snares. The
text: lone Black & White still dogs behind. Sirens wailing.
text: Baby HITS 70 mph. Then 80. Comes up to an intersection. Eases
text: off. Makes a hard right at the last second into -
text: A side street. Loses the Black & White. Baby TEARS down the
text: narrow street, dodges dumpsters.
text: On the adjacent artery, the Black & White can be seen in
text: parallel. Baby floors it to the next cross street and SWERVES a
text: hard left, directly into the path of the Black & White
dialog: pursuing.
text: Baby plows through this intersection, forcing the Black & White
text: and all other traffic to brake VIOLENTLY HARD.
text: The Honda Civic leaves the Black & White in the dust and tears
text: down another straight with less traffic.
text: Baby holds the gas down. Sees something before we do -
speaker_heading: JON SPENCER (CONT'D)
dialog: “I'm gonna break, I'm gonna break!"
text: Baby brakes, pulls hard on the wheel, accelerates through a 180
text: skid, roars in back the other direction with -
text: THREE BLACK & WHITES now on his tail. Red and Blues. Sirens.
text: Facing the original cruiser, Baby crosses the double line, tears
text: past oncoming traffic and DISAPPEARS up a freeway ramp.
dialog: No one saw that turn coming but Baby.
scene_heading: EXT. THE 405 FREEWAY - CONTINUOUS 5
text: The Black & Whites are left behind as Baby revs past the green
text: light and into aggressive morning traffic. 85... 90.
text: Highly distorted guitar signals the arrival of a POLICE
text: HELICOPTER. It dogs above, but has to play find-the-lady with
text: at least three red Honda Civics currently southbound.
text: Baby weaves from lane to lane. As he disappears under a bridge,
text: he crosses to the shoulder and barrels along it at a crazy
text: speed. Tears down the off ramp. And he’s back onto -
scene_heading: EXT. THE STREETS OF LA - CONTINUOUS 6
text: MASS HONKS as Baby blows through a intersection. Disappears down
text: an alley, weaving these back routes like a savant.
text: As sirens and choppers’ blades ebb away a little, we see Baby
text: ease it down, a rising bass riff signals a sneaking approach.
text: He slows to see if any cruisers cross by ahead. One police
text: cruiser glides by, sirens off. Baby waits on the bass riff
text: again. Then floors it when the coast’s clear. And suddenly -
text: They pull into a covered parking lot underneath a quiet shopping
text: complex and pull up next to a green Toyota Corolla.
text: And like that, the gang leap out of the Civic and into the switch
text: car, money and guns covered up.
text: The gang swap places. Buddy and Griff in the back. Baby shotgun,
text: Darling drives. Lets her hair down. Pulls on a colorful sweater.
text: Baby closes his eyes, pretends to be asleep as Darling roars
text: into the white of morning and the Blues Explosion echoes out.
text: And the first musical number is over. That was something.
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT - LATER 7
text: OVER CREDITS: ‘Harlem Shuffle’ by Bob & Earl.
text: Our hero, Baby, appears from a door in the mirrored exterior of
text: a non-descript business address in Bunker Hill.
text: Baby has his iPod earphones firmly in, his shades on and his
text: bubble of sound around him. Again, he’s clearly a big kid when
text: away from the gang, lost in his music.
text: He strolls down the street listening to ‘Harlem Shuffle’. The song
text: is as funky as the business district is not. Office workers stride
text: to work, while Baby STRUTS along like Tony Manero.
text: Baby walks against the traffic, the world syncing around him: a
text: chorus of car honks, cell phones and barking canines.
text: Baby uses a crosswalk, the bleeps and his steps all in time. He
text: reaches the other side of the street and breezes into -
scene_heading: INT. STARBUCKS - CONTINUOUS 8
text: Baby takes one ear out, orders from an unseen MALE BARISTA.
speaker_heading: BARISTA (0.S.)
dialog: Can I get your order sir?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: (counts out four fingers)
text: One black coffee. One black coffee.
dialog: One black coffee. And one coffee,
dialog: black.
speaker_heading: BARISTA (0.S.)
dialog: So, four black coffees?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh. Yeah.
speaker_heading: BARISTA (0.S.)
dialog: Size?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Middle one.
speaker_heading: BARISTA (0.S.)
dialog: Four grande black coffees. Name?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Baby.
speaker_heading: BARISTA (0.S.)
dialog: Your name is “Baby”?
speaker_heading: BABY
scene_heading: B-A-B-Y. Baby.
dialog: 10
text: Baby puts his second ear back in as the coffee machine screams
text: into life and Bob (or Earl) wails over the middle 8.
text: Baby looks around the Starbucks, sees other young people of his
text: age, smiling and chatting, enjoying their carefree lives. Their
text: actions are magically in time with his personal soundtrack.
text: Baby looks out through the window, sees A PRETTY GIRL walking
text: past. She too is wearing earphones and lost in her own music.
dialog: For a beautiful moment this girl and the whole damn city is
text: alive and all in step with the music in his head. All except -
text: A BEAT COP. Ironically, the only person not walking on beat.
text: The middle 8 ends. The GIRL disappears. The BEAT COP lingers.
text: Baby grabs his coffee tray. Splits.
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT - CONTINUOUS 9
text: Baby passes the Beat Cop, only doing a subtle strut in time.
text: His swagger returns as he approaches the building from where he
text: came. We see POLICE CARS reflected in the glass of the
text: building. Baby hears their sirens and watches as they pass.
text: As the song fades, Baby opens the door with his elbow, stops it
text: with his foot, all while switching the coffee tray from one
text: hand to the other. He then pirouettes into the open door. He is-
dialog: The Gene Kelly of the coffee run.
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - DAY 10
text: ‘Egyptian Reggae’ by Jonathan Richman & The Modern Lovers.
text: Coffee is drunk. Cash split. The gang are in a garment
text: warehouse space with some vintage sewing desks.
text: On a large table in the middle. DOC, an older (60s), silver-
text: haired, very well-dressed man, counts out the day’s haul.
text: Darling, fixes herself up (down?), now looking trashier than
text: before. Buddy, sits next to her and sips his coffee quietly.
text: Baby sits at the back of class, earphones in and shades still
text: on. The goofy kid has disappeared, the stoic, poker faced Baby
text: has returned. The beefy guy, Griff, glowers at him.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: What’s his deal?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Baby? Full cut. Same as everyone.
text: Doc is brusque, seems irritated at answering any questions.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: No I mean, is he retarded?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Retarded means slow. Was he slow?
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Then he don’t sound retarded to me.
text: Doc smiles for a second. Then resumes counting.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: I don’t know. There’s something wrong
text: with him not saying anything.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: There’s nothing wrong with some quiet.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: I’m just saying it weirds me -
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (makes a zip-it motion)
dialog: Hey! I’m going to lose count.
text: Griff swaggers over to Baby, who taps his fingers on the table
text: to ‘Egyptian Reggae’ on his iPod.
text: Griff observes for a while, then holds down his tapping hand.
text: Baby slowly takes his hand away. Now his feet tap in time.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: What you listening to?
text: No answer. Griff takes out one of Baby’s earphones.
speaker_heading: GRIFF (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you listening to Baby?
text: No answer. Griff looks at Baby’s iPod. Drops it with a scoff.
speaker_heading: GRIFF (CONT'D)
dialog: You think you’re pretty smart acting
dialog: dumb, that it?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Leave the kid alone Griff.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: I just wanna know what’s going in his
text: head. Aside from ‘Egyptian Reggae’.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: (half listening)
dialog: Love reggae.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: What does it matter to you?
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: I think he thinks he’s better than us,
dialog: Buddy. Wants to keep his white shirt
dialog: clean while we plays dirty.
text: Griff snatches off Baby’s shades. We see Baby’s baby blues for
text: the first time. He looks so fresh faced, so young.
speaker_heading: GRIFF (CONT'D)
dialog: It don’t work like that. Someday
dialog: you'll get blood on your hands and
dialog: find out it don’t wash off in the
dialog: fucking sink.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Griff.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Hey Darling, he wants to hang with the
dialog: older kids, he’s going to hear some
dialog: grown up words. Like ‘fuck’.
text: Griff does a boo scare on Baby. He doesn’t flinch.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Will you cut it out!
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Yeah, he did his job, let him be.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Hey, I ain’t saying he’s not great.
dialog: Boy’s a star, right?
text: Doc puts Baby’s cut in a holdall and brings it over to his desk.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Would I vouch for him if he wasn’t?
text: Doc leaves to go to the bathroom. Griff shouts after.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Hey I’m just checking he’s gonna be
dialog: okay out in the world. You know, since
text: he’s the only one in here not packing.
text: Smiling, Griff takes out his revolver, puts it on the desk.
text: Baby looks at the revolver, but doesn’t show any emotion.
speaker_heading: GRIFF (CONT'D)
dialog: Take it. There’s bad people around.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Speak for yourself.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Don’t want it? Say I took your share,
dialog: walked out? How you gonna stop me? I
dialog: wanna see you stop me.
text: Darling and Buddy exchange glances as Griff playfully swipes
text: Baby’s holdall and walks slowly away towards the door.
speaker_heading: GRIFF (CONT'D)
dialog: C’mon. Don’t let me get away.
text: Baby looks at Griff, then the revolver. Griff laughs.
speaker_heading: GRIFF (CONT'D)
dialog: Do it Baby. I’m a real bad guy.
text: Baby looks up at the ceiling. Griff is insulted.
speaker_heading: GRIFF (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay. Enough games.
dialog: 11
dialog: 10.
text: Griff huffs, reluctantly puts the money back in the holdall.
text: Baby quietly puts his shades back on again, retreats.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I figured out why you call him Baby.
text: Still waiting for his first words.
scene_heading: INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR - LATER 11
dialog: ‘Secondo Intermezzo Pop’ by Ennio Morricone.
text: Baby travels with Griff, Darling, Buddy and Doc in a packed
text: elevator. All five of them clutch HOLDALLS.
text: Darling is all over Buddy. Smooching and laughing. (The 20 year
dialog: age gap between them is a_ little much.)
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Well isn’t this quite the squeeze?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I think you’re quite the squeeze.
text: Griff again eyeballs Baby who has shades back on, phones in.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: You still mad-dogging me boy?
text: Doc snaps, Darling and Buddy sigh, tired of this shit.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Jesus. You're mad dogging him.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Yeah, where do you get off?
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Kid's gotta grow up sometime.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Seriously. Where do you get off?
text: PING. The lift hits Pl.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Right here.
text: Griff makes a move, looking to Doc.
speaker_heading: GRIFF (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay folks, if you don’t hear from me.
dialog: It’s because I’m dead.
dialog: 12
dialog: 11.
text: Griff exits the frame and the movie. He’s never seen again.
text: The doors close and Darling laughs at the release of tension.
text: The lift descends. Buddy and Darling kiss again.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Hey, what’s that song?
dialog: (sings)
text: “Love in an elevator”
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: That would be ‘Love In An Elevator’.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Riiight.
text: PING. The elevator hits P2. Buddy salutes Doc.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Sir, I will call you as soon as the
text: nose bag is empty.
text: Buddy punches Baby’s arm playfully.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: And you? You did great. You aced it.
dialog: You’re one of the good guys.
text: They exit. Buddy shouts back to Baby as the doors close.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: He calls you again, don’t pick up.
text: And with that, the elevator descends. Doc smiles tersely.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Don’t listen to him.
text: Baby then speaks his first words to any of ‘the gang’.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Okay.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING P3 - CONTINUOUS 12
text: PING. Baby and Doc exit into a cavernous parking lot. They walk
text: over to Doc’s shiny Black Merc. Doc opens the trunk.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Now you know I don’t like taking candy
dialog: from Baby, but...
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: 12.
text: Doc holds out his hand. Baby gives him his holdall. Doc takes
text: out one stack of bills and throws both bags in the trunk.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: Didn't want to embarrass you in front
dialog: of the gang. When we’re square we’ll
dialog: work out a new deal. Deal?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh. Yeah.
text: Doc gives Baby the one stack of bills. Gets into his car.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Don’t go crazy with that. I want you
text: back behind the wheel and soon. I’11
dialog: call you.
text: Doc pulls out. Leaves Baby all alone.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BLOCK - DUSK 13
text: ‘Nutrocker’ by B. Bumble And The Stingers.
text: A piano bangs out a funereal intro. We see a dilapidated red
text: brick apartment building complete with a rusty fire escape.
text: It’s a stone’s throw from a park. Judging by some of the
text: boarded up windows, literally a stone’s throw.
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT - DUSK 14
text: The song becomes a rendition of March Of The Wooden Soldiers,
text: we see Baby flick the stack of cash in time with the piano.
text: Without his shades, Baby again looks less the badass, more the
text: big kid. Young, of indeterminate age. Handsome, but cute.
text: As the track vamps, Baby puts the money away, under a missing
text: floorboard where an amount of dollar bills are stashed.
text: Baby replaces the board and we get a wider view of his
dialog: quarters.
text: Pretty basic. Tiny kitchenette. Small bathroom and bedroom. In
text: the center, a dining table and single chair.
text: As ‘Nutrocker' blossoms into a jazzy version of Tchaikovsky,
text: Baby mimes the keyboards on the table. Pounding out the tune
text: with his fingers. Playing at playing like Jerry Lee Lewis.
dialog: 13.
text: There are iPods on the counter, table and floor. There must be
text: close to 70 devices from different years, different colors,
text: different models, seemingly from different owners.
text: There isn’t a computer in the room. Just the odd charger.
text: Battered travel speakers. A cassette deck. Audio tapes. A vinyl
text: player. LPs. CD players, Walkmans. Dictaphones and many other
text: recorders. A treasure trove of music systems and physical
dialog: media.
dialog: While there is a tremendous amount of equipment, it’s ordered
text: in a way that makes sense to Baby. Very precisely laid out.
text: Baby is now jiving around the room to ‘Nutrocker’. He even pops
text: some pills to the tune. (Sharp eyes will notice it's
dialog: anticonvulsant medication for tinnitus and epilepsy.)
text: It’s clear music is an obsession as Baby dances like no-one's
text: watching. As he moves to the other side of the room we see -
text: An ELDERLY MAN (African American, 80s) in pajamas and robe,
text: sitting in a wheelchair. He’s half-asleep, watching TV.
text: Baby sees a KTLA 5 report on a ‘Valley Bank Robbe - '’.
text: CLICK. Baby switches it off. He wakes the Elderly Man and
text: communicates the following in sign language. No subtitles.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: ELDERLY MAN
dialog: I‘m hungry.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You want the same?
speaker_heading: ELDERLY MAN
dialog: Yes please.
text: As drums shuffle and the piano starts a descending octave, Baby
text: makes a sliced white bread and peanut butter sandwich.
text: He makes sure to spread the butter to the edges and cuts it
text: into four smaller slices. Every action has a flourish to it.
text: The song ends as it began, with jolly ceremony. Baby serves the
text: sandwich on bended knee, as if it were a royal platter. The
text: Elderly Man beams with his remaining teeth.
text: In the corner sits one of those deaf friendly phones where a
text: red light flashes when a call is incoming. It is not flashing.
dialog: 15
dialog: 16
dialog: 17
dialog: 18
dialog: 14.
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT —- EVENING 15
text: Baby sits alone. The Elderly Man is asleep in his chair. Baby
text: absent mindedly flicks through kids’ TV CHANNELS.
text: Flip to Alfala from ‘The Little Rascals’ singing -
speaker_heading: ALFALFA
dialog: “You are so beautiful."
text: Flip to Donkey and several baby donkeys in ‘Shrek The 3rd’-
speaker_heading: DONKEY
dialog: They grow up so fast.
dialog: Flip to Sully and Mike in ‘Monsters Inc’-
speaker_heading: MIKE WAZOWSKI
dialog: You and I are a team. Nothing is more
dialog: important than our friendship.
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT - LATER THAT NIGHT 16
text: Baby still sits alone. The Elderly Man now cannot be seen. He
text: holds an outmoded Sony handheld cassette recorder.
text: He plays back the audio for the opening chase. We hear a badly
text: recorded ‘Bellbottoms’ and all the sounds of the car.
text: The phone sits in the corner. Still nothing.
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT —- DAWN 17
text: Baby. Alone. Still playing the tape. We hear this dialogue.
speaker_heading: DOC (TAPE)
dialog: Was he slow?
speaker_heading: GRIFF (TAPE)
dialog: No.
text: VEEEEEP. Baby rewinds this. Listens again.
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING 18
dialog: ‘Call Me’ by Siriusmo.
text: Baby hasn't slept. Stares at the phone. In time with a track
text: made up of dial tones, he pretends to play it like a theremin.
dialog: 19
dialog: 15.
text: He mimes out this Chaplin-esque routine where he wills the
text: phone to ring with grand choreographed gestures.
text: But no call. Bored, Baby looks into the bedroom. Sees the
text: Elderly Man asleep under blankets. Sunlight streaming in.
text: Slowly Baby starts to fall asleep. But as soon as his eyes
dialog: close-
scene_heading: FLASHBACK: A HIGH PITCHED WHINE ON SOUNDTRACK
text: - A YOUNG 7 YEAR OLD Baby, not wearing headphones, sitting in
text: the same apartment, same table. The furnishings are different.
text: - Young Baby has bruises and visible stitches. He looks up to
text: see the Elderly Man (about 10 years younger) offer him a peanut
text: butter sandwich and mouth ‘you okay?'. Baby closes his eyes.
text: - See Young Baby, unbruised, in the back seat of a car,
text: headphones firmly on. The camera pans around to see -
text: - A crying woman driving.
text: - A man in the passenger seat shouting furiously at her.
text: - The pick up truck they are about to rear end.
text: - The WHINE reaches a peak. Baby closes his eyes.
text: FLASHBACK ENDS. Baby opens his eyes. Gets out of his chair.
text: He looks at one white iPod on the table. The original model
text: from 2001. It is cracked and broken. Beyond repair.
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING 19
dialog: ‘Intro’ by The Herbaliser.
text: Baby's back in his bubble. Jacket on. Phones in. Stands by the
text: front door in a hallway with mirrors on both sides.
speaker_heading: THE HERBALISER
dialog: “He's rough, he's rugged, he's red
dialog: blooded, he's romantic. He's full of
dialog: shit.”
text: Baby takes his shades on and off, throwing looks into the
text: mirrors, acting out tough expressions and badass poses.
text: It’s clear Baby will not leave until the beat kicks in. Baby
text: throws open the door and exits...
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. APARTMENT BLOCK - CONTINUOUS 20
text: To a funky groove, Baby struts down the stairwell, passing a
text: rising exposed elevator on the way up. He doesn’t acknowledge
text: the neighbor going up as he continues his tough act, sauntering
text: down to the front door and on beat -
text: He struts into the street, as if he owns it. Baby jumps into a
text: Blue Chevy Malibu. As the song ends, he rolls away.
scene_heading: INT. EMPTY DINER - EARLY MORNING 21
dialog: ‘Let’s Go Away For Awhile’ by The Beach Boys.
text: Baby. Shades on. Phones in. Looking ahead. Listening to music.
text: He sits in a pleasant, but not very busy, old school diner.
text: The decor is 50s retro and auto centric. Classic convertibles
text: with happy smiling couples inside are painted everywhere.
text: Baby sees the LA Times on the table. He flips it over so he
text: doesn’t have to see the headline featuring ‘Robbery’.
text: Baby looks out to see a COUPLE in a car at the lights. They
text: seem happy living the life Baby does not. They pull away
dialog: revealing-
text: The PRETTY GIRL from earlier.
text: She's outside the diner, wearing grey sweats, and still wearing
text: earphones too. She appears to be singing as she —
text: Walks into the diner and right into the kitchen.
text: Baby peers through the round glass of the kitchen doors as the
text: girl gets changed out of her sweats. Still singing.
text: Baby takes out one ear of his earphones to hear what she’s
text: singing. But he can only hear the diner music and a little
text: snatch of her voice when the kitchen doors swing open.
text: For a brief moment, the planets align and Baby's music, the
text: diner muzak and her singing make glorious union.
speaker_heading: THE GIRL
dialog: B-A-B-Y, Baby.
text: Baby takes off his shades to look more clearly at this angel,
text: but she disappears from view to finish getting changed.
text: Baby stares at the empty space where she just was. Then -
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: FEMALE VOICE
dialog: What can I get you this fine morning?
text: Baby looks up in a daze. It’s her. She’s a waitress.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Don’t worry if you need a minute. I
dialog: got all the time in the world.
text: She gestures to the empty diner. One man at the counter and a
text: second bored waitress. Baby stares at photos on the menu.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS (CONT’D)
dialog: Y'know that’s the kids’ menu right?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh. Yeah.
text: He embarrassedly flips the menu to the other side.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Hey don’t worry. I get it. It’s early.
dialog: You need Joe to jump start your head?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Joe?
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Coffee.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh. No thank you.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Did you just get off?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Get off?
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: You just starting your day or did you
dialog: just get off?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I guess.
text: The Waitress smirks at his non-answers. Hearing Baby talk more,
text: we note his speech patterns are half schoolkid and half stoner.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: What do you do?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I’m a driver.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Like a show-fer?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: A what?
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: You drive around important people?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I guess I do.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: That's pretty cool. Is it exciting?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Anyone I’d know?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I hope not.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Well, aren’t you mysterious?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: --.I don’t know.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: You don’t know? Ha! Do you ever hit
dialog: the road just for fun?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Not so much anymore.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Me neither. Sometimes I'd like to just
dialog: take off. Put some tunes on. Not know
dialog: where I was going.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Yeah.
dialog: 19.
text: A long pause. They drift off, lose themselves in the idea.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS (CONT’D)
dialog: Have you decided on anything yet?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yeah...
dialog: (blurts)
dialog: You are so beautiful.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Oh you just decided that? Well thank
dialog: you but I’m sure you don’t mean it.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I do mean it.
dialog: (looks at her name tag)
dialog: Jonathan?
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Oh sorry. This isn’t my badge. I only
dialog: just started here as a...
dialog: (gestures at her uniform)
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Jonathan?
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Yeah, as a ‘Jonathan’.
text: She smiles. Charmed at his odd manner. She walks off.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS (CONT’D)
dialog: Well, if you have any questions,
text: holler.
text: Baby stares as she walks off, tapping the backs of diner stools
text: in time with the music as she goes. She sings a snatch of the
text: song she was singing earlier in time with the muzak.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS (CONT’D)
dialog: B-A-B-Y, Baby.
text: Baby takes in this image of The Waitress framed within the
text: couples in convertible illustrations that adorn the walls.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I have a question.
speaker_heading: THE WAITRESS
dialog: Uh huh.
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: What song are you singing?
scene_heading: INT. DISCOUNT RECORD STORE - LATER 22
dialog: ‘The Plot’ by Lalo Schifrin.
text: Baby marches into a discount music store, the final resting
text: place of physical media. Zeroes in on the right section. He's
text: never looked so serious. He flips through jewel cases. Finds.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Car-lah Tom-ass.
text: We see the CD cover. ‘Gee Whiz: The Best Of Carla Thomas’. He
scene_heading: flips to the back cover. Track listings. ‘13. B-A-B-Y’.
text: Pays with a crisp new 50 dollar bill. And he’s out.
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT - DUSK 23
text: ‘B-A-B-Y’ by Carla Thomas plays at full volume.
text: Baby stands in the middle of the room. Lost in the track. The
text: Elderly Man sits in the corner again, watching TV.
text: We see a red light flashing on the phone.
text: Baby doesn’t see it at first. He mouths along with the song -
speaker_heading: CARLA THOMAS
dialog: “And I can't stop loving you.”
text: Baby has started a slow, solo dance around the room. The phone
text: light flashes in time with the track.
speaker_heading: CARLA THOMAS (CONT'D)
dialog: “And I won't stop calling you.”
text: The Elderly Man waves to Baby, alerts him to the phone. Baby
text: presses pause on his music and picks up.
speaker_heading: Doc (0.S.)
dialog: You didn’t answer. What’s up?
text: Baby briefly glances at the ceiling, puzzled.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: What’s up?
dialog: 24
dialog: 25
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: Doc (0.S.)
dialog: Baby, I don’t actually need to know.
dialog: Here’s what’s up.
scene_heading: INT. DISCOUNT CLOTHING - EVENING 24
text: ‘Supervillain Theme’ by Madvillain.
speaker_heading: Doc (0.S.)
dialog: I need you to drive me to an
dialog: appointment and I need you to look
dialog: smart.
text: Over the phone conversation, we see Baby in a cavernous
text: discount menswear store in Santee Alley, garment district.
text: It appears that we’re in the store after hours and that Doc is
text: very much in charge. He may be the owner as he has several same
text: age lackeys helping Baby try out some smarter clothes.
speaker_heading: DOC (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: You got what it takes to be a
dialog: chauffeur?
speaker_heading: BABY (0.S.)
dialog: I think so.
speaker_heading: Doc (0.S.)
dialog: You know what a chauffeur does?
speaker_heading: BABY (0.S.)
dialog: Drives around important people.
speaker_heading: Doc (0.S.)
dialog: You learn fast kid. I like it.
text: Baby admires his new suit. Doc gives it the nod too.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. FANCY RESTAURANT/FANCY CAR - NIGHT 25
dialog: ‘Marca A La Turca’ by La Tia Leonor Y Sus Sobrinos.
text: Baby drives Doc’s Merc up to an equally smart restaurant.
text: It’s a final sitting for dinner, not too busy. Baby sees a
text: booth full of SERIOUS LOOKING GUYS through the window.
text: He wears his new black suit, shirt, tie, smart sunglasses and
text: driver gloves. Only one earphone is in. Doc sits in the back.
text: Baby pulls into a spot. A town car is parked alongside.
dialog: 22.
text: A valet opens the door. Doc leans over to Baby and whispers -
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I won’t be long. In case of fire,
dialog: there’s something in the glove.
text: Doc gets out, leaving Baby staring at his gloves, intrigued.
text: There’s a hidden weapon in his gloves? Like in ‘Iron Man’?
text: Baby then realizes Doc meant the glove compartment. He opens
text: that to sees a PISTOL inside. He closes the glove again.
text: He looks over to the restaurant. Three WELL DRESSED TOUGHS sit
text: in a booth with their backs to the wall. They greet Doc with
text: cordial hugs. They look like gangsters. Or ex-cops.
text: As they talk we only see the back of Doc’s head. Their
text: conversation cannot be heard but it syncs perfectly with the
text: music in Baby's ears: a wonky sixties cover of Mozart's Piano
dialog: Sonata in A Major.
text: The four men discuss something important. Through Baby’s eyes
text: their hushed talk is scored by the piano music. A 4 bar melody
text: represents one guy talking, the next 4 bars in a higher octave
text: represent a second guy. The meeting continues in time with
text: descending piano scales.
text: A piece of paper is passed to Doc across the table, Baby starts
text: to mouth along with what he imagines the conversation to be,
text: mimicking the facial expressions of the three toughs.
text: As he fully commits to this silly charade the window of the
text: ADJACENT CAR winds down and a POKER FACED CHAUFFEUR looks
text: across at Baby, acting like a goof.
text: Baby stops. The chaffeur then winds his window back up.
text: Then, in perfect sync with a celebratory end to the track Doc
text: walks out of the front door of the restaurant.
text: Doc jumps in, slams the door on the closing note of the song.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: So I got us a job. You in?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Am I in?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It was a rhetorical question Baby.
dialog: You’re in.
dialog: 26
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED WAREHOUSE - DAY 26
text: ‘Kashmere’ by The Kashmere Stage Band.
text: Baby walks in with Doc. We see what he sees. Three new
text: colleagues. Three hardened criminals. Meet EDDIE, J.D. and
speaker_heading: BATS.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Meet the new cast.
text: All 30s, all formidable male specimens. Eddie is a slab of
text: white muscle with a discolored band-aid on his nose. J.D. is a
text: long haired, dopey faced Korean, covered in tattoos.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: This is Eddie No Nose. Formerly Eddie
dialog: The Nose.
speaker_heading: BATS (0.S.)
dialog: Why, what happened?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Come on. Don’t ask me that. That’s a
dialog: No-Nose’ no-one. Page one.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: And that’s J.D. He put the Asian in
dialog: home invasion. And Bats there-
text: Bats is an intense dude, mixed race, wiry with piercing eyes
text: and permanent grin. He wears a leather glove on one hand.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: No need for the intro Doc, everyone's
dialog: heard of the ‘One Glove Bandit’.
text: Bats and Co. treat their new member with curiosity and
text: malicious glee; their jazzy patter overlapping like Altman.
text: They talk around him, at him, project onto him.
dialog: J.D.
dialog: This is him Doc? This is the mute?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: All I hear is talk about this mute.
text: J.D, Eddie and Bats are up in Baby’s face like wild dogs as Doc
text: busies himself writing on a freestanding chalkboard.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: That right? Are you the mute?
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: ...No.
dialog: J.D.
dialog: This is the kid, the one who listens
dialog: to music all the time.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: If he’s got phones in all the time
dialog: how’s he’s concentrate on the job?
speaker_heading: DOC
text: He doesn’t phone it in.
dialog: J.D.
dialog: Phones don’t phone it in, huh?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Driver's supposed to be the eyes and
text: ears. Not just the eyes.
speaker_heading: DOC
text: He won’t disappoint.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You don’t disappoint in this biz, you
text: just end up dead.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I'd put money on any of you fucking
text: up, before Baby puts a step wrong.
dialog: J.D.
dialog: Baby steps, right?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Why’s he listen to music all the time,
dialog: he got mental problems or something?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Hey. I got the mental problems on this
dialog: crew. Position taken, you hear?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: He’s got tinnitus.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: What’s that?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Had an accident when he was a kid.
text: Something went pop in his ear.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 27
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
text: Still got a hum in the drum. Plays
text: music round the clock to drown it out.
dialog: J.D.
dialog: Hum-drum, huh?
text: Baby doesn’t react to them talking about the accident. He’s
text: distracted by one of J.D’s tattoos that reads ‘Hat’.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: ‘Hat’?
dialog: J.D.
dialog: Uh?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Your tattoo says ‘Hat’.
dialog: J.D.
dialog: Yeah it used to say ‘hate’, but to
dialog: appease my parole officer and increase
dialog: my chances of employment, I got the
dialog: ‘e’ removed.
speaker_heading: BATS (0.S.)
dialog: Oh how’s that working out for you?
dialog: J.D.
dialog: Who doesn’t like hats?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: So. Let’s talk shop.
dialog: (clicks fingers at Baby)
dialog: Baby, you with us?
text: Again, Baby doesn’t directly answer. We CUT TO-
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED WAREHOUSE - LATER 27
text: ‘Unsquare Dance’ by Dave Brubeck.
text: Over a strong bass line, hand claps and snare drums -
text: Doc relates a plan to the four strong team. Some of it is
text: illustrated on the chalkboard. We see everyone, except Baby,
text: listen as Doc relays details of masks, timings, routes etc.
text: Baby sits at the back again. The music in his ears fully drowns
text: out any dialogue. But he watches their lips.
text: There is a TOY CAR on the table next to some floorplans. Baby
text: absent mindedly plays with it as he taps his foot.
dialog: 28
dialog: 26.
text: The song finishes. Doc finishes. Bats’ hand shoots up.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I got a question. Tell me why I should
dialog: believe Phones over there listened to
dialog: a damn word you just said? You go
dialog: through the whole play and he ain't
dialog: listening.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Baby?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You're going to hit an armored truck
dialog: at Banco Popular in El Monte at 10am
dialog: sharp. You have the details of the
dialog: route because someone at the depot has
dialog: a nasal problem. The bank itself is
dialog: right by the 10 so we should be able
dialog: to hit a ramp within 60 seconds of
dialog: getting out. We also have a diversion
dialog: crew, who are going to blow up a bread
text: truck a ways away, keep the fuzz busy.
dialog: Dress code is Michael Myers Halloween
dialog: masks, but you can’t all buy the masks
text: at the same time, looks suspicious.
dialog: You guys have the switch car all set
dialog: up, but you want me to go out to the
dialog: long stay parking structure at a
dialog: Metrolink and get a ride that stays
dialog: colder for longer. Boost a commuter
text: car, a family car. Something that will
text: blend into the morning traffic.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I think something on the heavy side,
dialog: case we need to ram the police off the
text: road. An Escalade, a Yukon, an
dialog: Avalanche. Whatever it is, it needs to
dialog: be ready for an 8.30 start. In the
dialog: ayem.
dialog: Wowed silence.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: That’s my Baby.
scene_heading: INT. NORTH CORONA METROLINK PARKING STRUCTURE - EARLY MORNI2A8G
text: ‘Bongolia’ by The Incredible Bongo Band.
text: On a bongo roll, we see a windshield POV, as we pull into a
text: concrete parking structure and park up in a long stay spot.
dialog: 29
dialog: 27.
text: Shades on, ears in; Baby sits in a 1989 white Toyota Camry. And
dialog: waits for something better.
text: Drums kick in. Tempo shifts up. The lot gets busy.
text: On every second beat we hear a loud vibraslap and each time
text: Baby sizes up another car. Office workers slamming car doors
text: and beeping keys in perfect sync with his music.
text: We see a silver Infinti dropped off, a blue Accord, a green
text: Acura, a silver SmartCar, then bingo. A black Avalanche.
text: The middle aged, middle management AVALANCHE OWNER beeps it
text: locked. Then wanders out of the lot, nose in the LA Times.
text: On a drum fill, Baby jumps out of his ride, follows.
scene_heading: EXT. NORTH CORONA METROLINK STATION - CONTINUOUS 29
text: A brass riff scores Baby following the Avalanche Owner, copying
text: his stride. He follows him onto the train platform. Apes his
text: glance to the digital timetable. He even swipes a discarded
dialog: paper to look like a real commuter.
text: When the Avalanche Owner reaches the edge of the platform. Baby
text: stops, pretending, like his mark, to read the LA Times too. The
text: Avalanche Owner stops to get a coffee from a news stand. Baby
text: does too, like a weird echo of Harpo Marx.
text: A bongo solo signals the arriving train. Baby waits, lining up
text: one door away from the Avalanche Owner. They get on.
text: The Avalanche Owner moves inside the carriage, Baby does too
text: and KNOCKS RIGHT INTO HIM.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I’m sorry.
text: Baby then swiftly moves further down the carriage.
text: The breakdown ends with a key change and a whistle blowing.
text: Just before the train doors close, Baby slips off again.
text: Now a solo sax joins as Baby struts back to the parking
text: structure, a swing in his step as the train leaves behind.
text: The brass sounds triumphant as Baby Travoltas back into the
text: long stay area and right up to his prize.
text: The Avalanche. Baby walks up. Whips out the OWNER’S KEYS. Beep
text: beeps. Gets in. Pulls out.
dialog: 30
dialog: 28.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. BANCO POPULAR/AVALANCHE - LATER THAT MORNING 30
text: The Avalanche pulls into a strip mall lot outside the bright
text: red facade of a Banco Popular. Parks up.
text: Baby is still at the wheel. In the back are Eddie and J.D.
text: dressed in black duds. In shotgun and in black is Bats.
text: Baby spies, with his little eye, a utility uniformed MARINE
text: walk past their car and over to a 1988 Red Toyota Pickup.
text: The Marine eyeballs the Avalanche as he gets into his Ford, but
text: Baby’s attention turns to another Ford, the E-350 ARMORED TRUCK
text: which pulls up level with a side entrance to the bank.
text: Bats breathes deep. Whispers a mantra, half to himself.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: What’s in there is ours. It belongs to
dialog: us. They got our money. Our hard
dialog: earned paper. They snuck in last night
dialog: when we was asleep, took our pants off
text: the chair and emptied our wallet. They
dialog: got what is rightfully ours. So let’s
dialog: take it back. What is rightfully ours.
text: Baby hits play on an iPod plugged into the Chevy’s stereo.
text: ‘Neat Neat Neat’ by The Damned. A menacing bass riff scores -
text: Bats. Pulling on the mask from the movie ‘Halloween’.
text: In the back Eddie also pulls on the ‘Halloween’ mask.
text: Third up, J.D. pulls on an ‘Austin Powers’ latex face mask.
speaker_heading: HALLOWEEN 1 (BATS)
dialog: What is that?
speaker_heading: AUSTIN POWERS (J.D.)
dialog: What’s what?
speaker_heading: HALLOWEEN 2 (EDDIE)
dialog: Your mask! Doc said Michael Myers.
speaker_heading: AUSTIN POWERS (J.D.)
dialog: This is Mike Myers!
speaker_heading: HALLOWEEN 1 (BATS)
dialog: It should be the ‘Halloween’ mask!
speaker_heading: AUSTIN POWERS (J.D.)
dialog: This is a Halloween mask!
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: HALLOWEEN 1 (BATS)
dialog: You’re gonna stand out.
speaker_heading: AUSTIN POWERS (J.D.)
dialog: From who? Is everyone in this mall
dialog: wearing a Mike Myers mask too?
speaker_heading: HALLOWEEN 2 (EDDIE)
dialog: Michael Myers.
speaker_heading: AUSTIN POWERS (J.D.)
dialog: Whatever dude.
text: Austin Powers goes to open his door when Baby stops them -
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Wait. I gotta start the song again.
text: Baby rewinds, plays the intro again. The gang stare like he’s
text: insane. When drums kick at the 5 second mark, Baby points.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT’D)
dialog: Okay go.
text: The gang jump out of the Avalanche. Run over to the truck.
text: Surprise the Hopper unloading bags from the back doors.
text: Halloween 1 is about to cold cock the Hopper when -
text: Baby pulls forward a few feet, blocking his view of the
text: violence. He looks dead ahead, retreats into his bubble.
text: Chooses not to watch. He lip syncs the first verse -
speaker_heading: THE DAMNED
dialog: “Be a man, can a mystery man. Be a
dialog: doll, be a baby doll. It can't be fun
dialog: in any way. There can be found no way
dialog: at all.”
text: Then on a key change into the chorus, he backs up. Sees two
text: Halloweens and Austin Powers, each with a bag running toward.
text: Baby can see the Hopper beyond them. Face down on the ground.
dialog: Blood on the concrete. Baby didn't want to see this. Then-
text: Halloween 1 & 2 jump in. Austin Powers lags behind, a klutz.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Fucking move Austin! Move! Use your
dialog: powers of speed!
text: Austin (J.D.) finally makes it to the car. And then Baby floors
text: it, spins a perfect circle to face the exit. When -
dialog: 31
dialog: 30.
text: The RED PICKUP reverses into their path. Blocking the exit.
text: Baby squeals to a halt as the Marine jumps out, pulls a RIFLE
text: and opens fire on the Avalanche. Holy shit.
text: Baby & Co. Hit the deck. Bullets spiderweb the windshield.
text: Slam into reverse. Scream into a J-turn.
text: BANG! The Marine takes out the rear window. Glass rains down.
text: BANG! The driver of the armored truck is out and firing too.
text: VROOM! Baby floors it. Escapes over a landscaped island.
text: In his shaking rear view, Baby can just see the Marine jump
text: back into the Red Pickup, as he roars onto -
scene_heading: EXT. VALLEY BLVD / I-10 - CONTINUOUS 31
text: Sweating, Baby speeds out of there. Screams down the shoulder.
text: Going 70... 80. The gang in the car have their masks off and
text: slump down, out of sight. Bats curses.
text: An out of control guitar solo signals the Avalanche joining the
text: freeway and swerving wide to occupy the far left lane.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Diamond lane that shit. We got four.
text: Baby holds the gas down, tearing up the far left, swerving only
text: to overtake cars observing the speed limit.
text: As the guitar solo goes up in register. Bats sees-—
text: THE RED FORD PICKUP is behind and gaining. Baby is boxed in by
text: rigs. Allowing the Pickup to get close.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Go Baby go!
text: Right now. There is nowhere to go. The Pickup closes in, a
text: determined Marine at the wheel.
text: To the gang’s amazement, The Pickup attempts the PIT maneuver
text: (Pursuit Immobilization Technique), tapping the back of the
text: Avalanche and sending the gang into a tailspin.
dialog: That would be pretty crazy, if not for what happens next.
text: Still boxed in by surrounding rigs, Baby spins the wheel and
text: turns the fishtailing Avalanche around to face front again.
dialog: 32
dialog: 31.
text: Nose forward, Baby floors it, snakes in between the rigs in a
text: hairy move, just missing them both.
text: It is some fancy ass driving. Though Baby looks shaken.
text: The Pickup is left on the scorching hot 10, as the Avalanche
text: swerves hard right and, like that, is gone -
scene_heading: EXT. OFF RAMP —- CONTINUOUS 32
text: The Avalanche glides fast down the off ramp. But up ahead-
text: A RED LIGHT. Construction. Single lane traffic.
text: The music breaks down to the solo bass line. Baby's car is
text: third back from the stop light. Bats motions for them to get
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: New ride.
text: Baby unplugs the iPod and jumps out, there is a PAUSE in the
text: music. We hear traffic, sirens approach, sounds of unease.
text: Bats and Eddie stroll with their bags to the first car at the
text: stop. A Blue Accord with a YOUNG MOTHER inside, Bats taps his
text: pistol on the passenger window. The Mother looks stunned.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MOTHER
dialog: I have a child.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Get the fuck out of the car lady.
text: Bats roughly pulls the Mother out and gets the fuck in. Baby
text: quickly, instinctively opens the back door. Sees-—
text: Her YOUNG SON on the backseat. He recognises himself, then
text: unbuckles and hands the scared kid to his mom at the roadside.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: C’mon pussies. Let’s go go go.
text: J.D. is lagging again, having run back to retrieve a gun from
text: the Avalanche. Bats mutters again at the gang klutz.
text: J.D’s Austin Powers masks FALLS OFF as he races to the Accord.
text: He quickly picks it up off the street and jumps in.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Jesus, Austin!
dialog: 33
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
dialog: 32.
text: Baby is now in the drivers seat and quickly plugs his iPod into
dialog: this car. We barely miss a bar.
text: The light turns magically green. They pull out and drive to -
scene_heading: EXT. ROSEMEAD SHOPPING CENTER - CONTINUOUS 33
text: Baby eases this unplanned ride into a shopping center parking
text: lot. The GPS is going crazy (all in time with the music)
speaker_heading: FEMALE GPS VOICE
dialog: Route recalculation...
text: Baby glides past an oblivious Black & White that is on its way
text: out of the huge mall.
text: When the cruiser is out of sight, Baby swerves hard and heads
text: for their target, a quiet access street behind a Target.
text: They pull up next to a 2005 SILVER SATURN AURA parked in the
text: shadow of the morning sun.
text: On the final chorus, drums drive up the energy as our gang jump
text: out and slip into their third ride of the day.
text: We're back to something like clockwork. The hi hats blending
text: into white noise as Baby slams into drive, peels out and -
scene_heading: EXT. UNDERGROUND PARKING P3 - LATER 34
text: Pulls up to a sharp stop back at Doc’s. Baby got the gang out
text: of a mess. But he is not as calm as before, he’s sweating.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Man up, Baby.
dialog: (jumps out)
dialog: And go get the fucking coffee.
text: We hear the ‘Harlem Shuffle’ intro again. But this time -
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT - MOMENTS LATER 35
text: It's a cover by ‘The Foundations’. And it's a faster tempo.
text: Equally, Baby performs his coffee run at speed. But he’s not
text: strutting this time. He’s not enjoying himself. At all.
dialog: 36
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: 33.
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - LATER 36
text: Doc divides up the take in front of the gang. Baby walks back
text: in, handing out black coffees. To Doc, to Eddie, to Bats, to...
text: Baby looks for the missing team member. Doc catches it.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Where’s J.D.?
text: Eddie sips at his coffee. Bats sits back and stretches.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: The International Man of Mystery?
text: Bats lifts up the Austin Powers mask, puppeteering it with two
text: fingers through the eyes and his thumb through the mouth.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Beats me.
text: Bats grins at Baby like a naughty schoolkid.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING P3. DAY 37
text: PING. Baby exits the elevator with Doc. Both carry holdalls.
text: Baby walks over to the Silver Aura. Stares at the trunk. But
text: doesn’t dare open it. We see a SMUDGE OF BLOOD on the latch.
text: Stay on Baby. Mesmerized. Horrified. Doc takes Baby’s Holdall
text: from his hands. Gives him a stack of bills in return.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You’re nearly done Baby.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: One more job though. Lose this ride.
text: SLAM. Baby shuts the door, sits in the car. Alone.
scene_heading: EXT. JUNK YARD - DAY 38
text: A slowed down version of Carla Thomas’ ‘B-A-B-Y’ starts.
text: Baby watches his former ride (the Aura) and former colleague
text: (J.D.), about to be destroyed in a car wrecker.
dialog: 39
dialog: 34.
text: A hydraulic plate presses. The windows explode. Baby turns,
text: equally crushed, as the song drowns out the CRUNCHING METAL.
text: He closes his eyes.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK: A HIGH PITCHED WHINE ON SOUNDTRACK
text: In reverse we see the CRUNCHING METAL of a car slamming into
text: the back of a pick up truck. Then see in reverse-
text: - The man shouting. The crying woman driving. The busy road.
text: - We see a Young Baby sitting in an apartment we haven't seen.
text: Standing over him, the Man & Woman from the previous flashback.
text: - Eyes closed, Young Baby opens a hastily wrapped gift. He
text: opens his eyes to see a new iPod. The one we saw earlier,
text: unbroken.
text: - Young Baby peers through a bedroom door. Sees the Man & Woman
text: argue violently. Listens to the iPod to drown out the fight.
text: - Young Baby hides under his comforter. His mother leans over
text: him. Her mascara has run. She takes out one of Baby's
text: earphones, says ‘Hey Baby’. Young Baby closes his eyes. The
text: WHINE peaks.
scene_heading: INT. HALF EMPTY DINER - DAY 39
text: Baby opens his eyes. He sits in his usual spot. Sans shades.
text: Retreats into a happy song (‘Lalo Bossa Nova’ by Quincy Jones).
text: A finger clicks in front of his face. She’s here. His waitress.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: You're back.
text: Baby doesn’t catch this. She takes one of his earphones out.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS (CONT’D)
dialog: You're back.
text: Baby is not sure whether he’s dreaming or not.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I am?
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Yeah you are. And you sir are going to
dialog: be my last customer because I am
dialog: walking outta that door in precisely
dialog: 30 seconds.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You're leaving?
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Yes I am.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Can I come with you?
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: You can. But I don’t know how exciting
dialog: you're gonna find the laundromat.
text: Baby is confused.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS (CONT’D)
dialog: I gotta run some errands. So can I get
dialog: you a drink instead?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Oh, I don’t drink.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: No, I mean water, coffee?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I don’t drink.
text: Another pause. The waitress breaks into a cute grin.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Well you might not drink sir, but I am
dialog: sure getting a buzz off you.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Yeah. Tell you what, you have a think
dialog: about what you want, and I will stick
dialog: around and wait for you.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You will?
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Yessir.
text: Baby glances at the menu, but can’t stop watching the Waitress,
text: who small-talks with a Second Bored Waitress.
speaker_heading: SECOND WAITRESS
dialog: How you two getting along?
dialog: 36.
text: The Waitress grins. Baby loses himself in that sunny smile.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Oh, good. He’s sweet isn’t he?
speaker_heading: SECOND WAITRESS
dialog: That kid’s been coming here since
dialog: before me. I think maybe his mom used
dialog: to work here.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Huh...
text: The song fades in Baby’s ears. The waitress comes back.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS (CONT’D)
dialog: You know what you want?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Your name?
text: This is not as smooth as it sounds.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: You can get that for free. It’s
text: Debbie. Debora.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Like the song?
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: The Beck one? Yes, except I’m ‘d-e-b-o-
dialog: r-a’ and I think that’s just ‘d-e-b-r-
dialog: a’.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I don’t know it.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: It goes-—
dialog: (sings just beautifully)
dialog: ‘I met you at J.C. Penny, I think your
dialog: nametag, said Jenny’.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Jenny?
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Yeah, the song is about him wanting to
dialog: get with Jenny and her sister too,
dialog: whose name is Debra. So it’s not even
dialog: really about me, it’s about the
dialog: sister. My sister’s name is Mary.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: DEBORA (CONT'D)
dialog: She’s got all the songs. ‘Mary, Mary
dialog: where you going to’, ‘Proud Mary keep
dialog: on burning’, ‘Mary, you shouldn’t let
dialog: ‘em make you mad’. She’s got me beat.
dialog: Again. She’s got endless songs. I got
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Two.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: What’s the other one?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Debora.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Who by?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Trex?
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: T-Rex? I know ‘em, but I don’t know
dialog: that one. How does it go?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: (half sings)
dialog: Deboree-dah. Deboree-dah. Bee-dah.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: I like it so far.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Oh Deb-o-rah, always look like a zeb-o-
dialog: rah.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: A zeb-orah?
speaker_heading: BABY
text: A zeebra.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Hey, I guess I am wearing black and
dialog: white. So you can call me Dee-bra.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I have it on here.
text: Baby takes out his iPod and shuffles through in front of her.
text: Debora notices that it is pink and covered in glitter.
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: You have that iPod the other day?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: You have different color iPods for
dialog: different days, different moods?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I guess.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: This a pink and glittery day for you?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh. Yeah.
text: Debora laughs again. This kid is a kook.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: What is your name?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Baby.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Your name is ‘Baby’? ‘B-A-B-Y, Baby’?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Well then you have us all beat. Every
dialog: song is about you!
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I guess.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Did your Mom call you Baby?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: ...Sometimes.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: She used to work here?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Sometimes. She was a singer too.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Oh wow. I like to think I can sing.
dialog: But I am not a pro or anything. What
dialog: does she do now?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Nothing...
text: Baby is looking flustered. He holds up the iPod again.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT'D)
dialog: I can find ‘Debora’ if you want.
text: Debora pauses, smiles sweetly at him.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: How about you play it for me sometime
dialog: when I don’t gotta rush off. Deal?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Deal.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Now you know what you want yet?
dialog: Baby knows what he wants. Her.
scene_heading: 40 EXT./INT. HALF EMPTY DINER/AVALANCHE - MOMENTS LATER 40
text: ‘Debora’ by T-Rex.
text: Baby sits in a Red Chrysler Lebaron singing along. Loudly. Out
text: of his window, he sees the real Debora leave work.
text: She briefly shoots a look Baby’s way. He ducks.
scene_heading: 41 INT. BABY’S BATHROOM - EVENING 4l
text: ...then resurfaces wet to sing along with ‘Debora’. Again.
text: Baby is in the bath. The song echoes around the tiles. It is
text: being played on a battered iPod speaker dock. Baby goofs around
text: to the track in the bath, in his own mini musical.
scene_heading: 42 INT. BARE APARTMENT - LATER 42
text: ‘Debora’ still plays. Baby dances around the living room.
dialog: 40.
text: The Elderly Man is in his chair, looking more and more like a
text: piece of the furniture. He watches the local news again with
text: subtitles. We see that THE MARINE is being interviewed when -
text: Baby switches the channels to ‘Jeopardy’.
text: Then Baby resumes singing with ‘Debora’ again, leading into a -
text: ‘DEBORA’ ON REPEAT MONTAGE: The song scores Baby’s night.
text: - Baby flicks through an address book. Empty except for ‘D’. We
text: see ‘DOC’ and his phone number written in a scrawl.
text: - Baby adds the name ‘Debora’. Under, he draws a question mark.
text: - Baby plays dialogue on his recorder in time with ‘Debora’.
speaker_heading: BABY (ON TAPE)
dialog: Can I come with you?
speaker_heading: DEBORA (ON TAPE)
dialog: Yes, you can.
text: VEEEEEP. He rewinds this. Plays it again.
text: - Baby uses a twin deck cassette recorder to edit dialogue. We
text: see stacks of TDK D90s and TDK D30s audio tapes.
text: - Using the pause, play and record buttons on the twin deck, he
dialog: has edited a conversation with Debora to say -
speaker_heading: DEBORA (ON TAPE) (CONT’D)
dialog: Sometimes I’d like to just take off.
speaker_heading: BABY (ON TAPE)
dialog: Can I come with you?
speaker_heading: DEBORA (ON TAPE)
dialog: Yessir. I got all the time in the
dialog: world.
text: - Baby sits back in a chair and listens to this dialogue on a
text: loop. It’s now the dead of night. He is alone when -
text: The phone rings. FLASHES. Baby stares. Doesn’t pick up.
text: - Baby sits on the bathroom floor. He lip syncs along to
text: ‘Debora’ with gusto, as if driving other concerns out.
text: - Baby peers back into the main room. Two things.
text: One. Sunlight floods in. He has clearly not slept again.
dialog: 43
dialog: 44
dialog: 41.
text: Two. The phone is still FLASHING. Baby doesn’t pick up.
text: - Baby sits at his bedroom window, looks out at the city.
text: Mouthing along with ‘Debora’ again.
text: - The phone FLASHES again. Baby is not present. We see the
text: Elderly Man rise slowly out of his chair to answer.
text: Baby runs out of the bedroom. Motions ‘No’. Stops him.
text: He watches the phone FLASH. ‘Debora’ echoes around the room.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BLOCK - DAY 43
text: Baby comes bounding out of his block. He gets into his Red
text: Chrysler Lebaron and peels out. He doesn’t see-
text: A BLACK MERC behind him. It follows slowly.
scene_heading: INT. HALF EMPTY DINER - DAY 44
dialog: ‘I Can’t Believe What You Say’ by Ike & Tina Turner.
text: Baby is happy to be back. Upbeat music on. His shades are off.
text: Has the pink iPod with him. He looks out of the window-
text: He imagines himself and The Waitress as a young couple in a 50's
text: convertible at the lights. Smiling, laughing. Then he hears-
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Hey Baby.
text: She’s here. The dream come true.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Hey Debora. I’m back.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: I can see. What’s up?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You know... just listening.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Well, what you listening to?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Music.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Well, duh.
dialog: 42.
text: Baby smarts a little at this. Debora stops herself.
speaker_heading: DEBORA (CONT'D)
dialog: Wait, I take that back. I guess not
dialog: everyone listens to music. Could be a
dialog: podcast or an audiobook. Hell, I get
text: to sleep listening to whale song.
dialog: Never even seen a whale but I sleep
dialog: with one.
speaker_heading: BABY
text: It’s music.
text: Baby offers up his iPod. She reads the display.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Ike and Tina Turner huh?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You like ‘em?
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Half. Like Tina. Don’t like Ike. He’s
dialog: a bad man. Don’t like bad men.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You don’t?
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Why, do you?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No. I don’t.
text: Baby then sees. Outside the diner. For real. DOC. Patiently
text: waiting outside his Black Merc.
speaker_heading: DEBORA (0.S.)
dialog: I don’t need bad people in my life. Or
dialog: my ears. I’1l stick with the whale.
text: Debora sees she has lost Baby’s attention.
speaker_heading: DEBORA (CONT'D)
dialog: Is that your Dad?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No. It isn’t.
text: Baby just stares out the window. Debora notes his unease.
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Hey, why don’t I give you a minute to
dialog: decide.
text: Baby pauses his music. We hear that FAINT UNSETTLING HUM.
scene_heading: 45 EXT. DINER PARKING LOT / INT. DINER - DAY 45
text: Baby walks up to Doc. Shades firmly on. The hum continues.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I called three times. Something wrong?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: What’s with you all of a sudden? You
dialog: sweet on that waitress or something?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Well, there’s good news and there’s
dialog: good news. Good news is you’re paid in
dialog: full. We’re all square. And then the
dialog: good news is I got another job for ya.
dialog: So maybe if you wanna get your
dialog: waitress girlfriend there a rock or
dialog: some fur, you’re gonna get a fat cut.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: She's not my girlfriend...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: «+-So, you in?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Am I in?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: One, don’t reply to my question with a
dialog: question. Two, I ain’t in the habit of
dialog: taking no for an answer. So, get in.
dialog: I'm driving.
text: Doc opens the passenger door. From inside, DEBORA puzzles at
text: this well dressed older man opening the door for Baby.
text: Baby looks at Debora one last time, takes a breath. Then jumps
text: into the passenger seat. They disappear.
dialog: 46
dialog: 44,
scene_heading: INT. DOC’S MERC - LATER 46
dialog: ‘Here We Go’ by Mister Scruff.
text: Doc drives the Merc down a street with palm trees on either
dialog: side. But this is not Sunset Boulevard. It’s Watts. Baby looks
text: out of the window. His stomach sinking.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You're not going to ask why?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Why I’m driving?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Why are you driving?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: What I’m alluding to Baby, is that you
dialog: don’t have to drive forever. You
dialog: haven’t done me wrong yet, have you?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: No you haven't. I don’t think you have
dialog: the fuck up gene. Not like your dad.
text: Baby says nothing.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: You keep going like you’re going, you
dialog: can leave the wheels behind some day.
dialog: How does that sound?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I don’t know sir.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: What don’t you know?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I know what I’m good at.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: And I ain’t seen you break a sweat
dialog: doing it. I’m just saying, there’s
dialog: other jobs in your future. If you want
text: to shift up a gear.
dialog: 47
dialog: 45.
text: Baby looks out of the window. Doc seems offended, then smiles.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: Sure. You can think about it first.
scene_heading: EXT. US POST OFFICE. WATTS - DAY 47
text: Doc pulls into a unremarkable strip mall that houses a post
text: office. Construction is occurring nearby. The noise is
text: disorienting. It is hot outside. Sticky. Close.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: This place doesn’t get rolled as much
dialog: as you’d think. Most people get scared
dialog: off by the area. But we ain’t most
dialog: people.
dialog: (looks at watch)
dialog: It will be ripe around this time
dialog: tomorrow. So what do you say? You
dialog: wanna go for third time lucky?
text: Baby looks at the immediate area, feels uneasy. Turns to Doc.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Can I just drive? Have my music?
text: Doc looks at him, then shakes his head, smiling.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Sure you can. But I want you to do
dialog: something for me right now. I want you
dialog: to go in there. Make a note of the
dialog: number and position of cameras, the
dialog: number of registers open, number of
dialog: employees and number of customers. Is
dialog: there a guard? Is he armed? Is there
dialog: bandit glass? You’re not a face so it
dialog: will be cool. Here’s some currency to
dialog: get changed. Take your buds out and
text: shades off. Less suspicious.
dialog: Baby does so.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh and take him too.
text: Doc motions to the backseat. There is an EIGHT YEAR OLD KID
text: sitting on the backseat. He has his own phones in, and is
text: plugged into his PSP. He throws Baby a bored look.
dialog: 48
dialog: 46.
scene_heading: INT. US POST OFFICE - DAY 48
text: Baby enters the post office. An alien environment to him.
text: It’s an impersonal space. Like a bank, but without couches and
text: complimentary coffee. A security guard is present. The counter
text: is wide open, a heavy door protects the back room.
text: Without music playing, we again hear the hum in his ears. It’s
text: an unsettling noise that accentuates Baby’s unease. It is also
text: intensified by the whine of computers and cameras in the room.
text: Baby cases. He counts the number of cameras (three) and the
dialog: number of registers (six). There are a few (eight) customers
text: doing business at the (four) registers open.
text: He mouths the numbers. The Kid tugs on Baby’s leg. Whispers.
speaker_heading: THE KID
text: No bandit glass. One guard unarmed,
dialog: three cameras, six registers, two
text: open, eight customers, four employees.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Thanks.
text: They wait in line. The kid continues playing on his PSP.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT'D)
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: I get bored of this.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yeah. Me too.
text: Baby reaches his TELLER, a sweet faced lady, some jewelry,
text: personal flare, a small crucifix. He hands her some pesos.
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER
dialog: Back from vacation?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh. Yeah.
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER
dialog: Oh it would be real nice to get away.
dialog: With all this heat.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yes, ma’am.
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER
dialog: How old is your boy?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Four?
speaker_heading: THE KID
dialog: Eight.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: They grow up so fast.
text: The Teller is bemused. She hands back some dollars.
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER
dialog: Does he have a name?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You do don’t you?
speaker_heading: THE KID
dialog: Samm.
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER
dialog: Well Samm. I have a mint with your
dialog: name on it.
text: The Teller passes a mint across, smiling sweetly.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Thank you.
text: Baby has a sudden flicker of concern. Politely asks.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you here tomorrow?
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER
dialog: Sure am. Workin’ 9 to 5. Just like
dialog: Dolly.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Dolly?
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER
text: Dolly Parton. ‘9 to 5’.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Oh yeah. I like Dolly.
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER
dialog: Who doesn’t? ‘Everybody wants
dialog: happiness, nobody wants pain, but you
dialog: can't have a rainbow without a
dialog: little rain’. Wise lady.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: She is.
scene_heading: 49 INT. DOC’S MERC - MOMENTS LATER 49
text: Baby jumps back in shotgun. Samm in the back.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: So?
speaker_heading: BABY
text: No bandit glass. One guard unarmed,
dialog: three cameras, six registers, four
text: open, eight customers.
text: The kid coughs. Mouths ‘four employees’.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT'D)
dialog: And four employees.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Anything else?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: The teller seemed nice.
speaker_heading: THE KID
dialog: Yeah, that lady gave me a mint.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: She did?
speaker_heading: THE KID
dialog: Yeah. She did seem real nice. You
dialog: probably wouldn’t even need to use a
dialog: gun with her. Just say boo and she’1l
dialog: give you the big bills first.
speaker_heading: DOC
text: Chips off the block.
text: Doc smiles. Baby does too, but only for Doc’s benefit. When
text: Baby looks out of the window, his expression clouds again.
speaker_heading: DOC (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: So you think about it?
dialog: 50
dialog: 49.
scene_heading: INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR - AFTERNOON 50
text: ‘Threshold’ by Steve Miller Band.
text: CLUNK. The elevator doors close on Baby and Doc like a prison
text: cell. Baby looks trapped as he and Doc go up in the world.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: My offer.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yes...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I’m thinking about your future. Are
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I am...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: And I don’t offer these positions
dialog: lightly Baby. You wouldn’t want me to
dialog: be offended would you?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No.
text: Doc eyeballs Baby. Unsure if there’s hesitation or insolence.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It’s just when I give you something
dialog: nice, maybe try and help you out of
dialog: your situation and you go off day
dialog: dreaming, I feel like I should go fuck
dialog: myself.
text: Doc smiles broadly. This is somehow much worse. Baby takes a
text: breath, takes his shades off and says the following.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: You and I are a team. There is nothing
dialog: more important than our friendship.
text: Doc is surprised and touched.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Well, good.
text: CLANK. The elevator reaches their floor. The doors open.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: Normally I’d introduce you to the rest
dialog: of your team. But in this case, you
dialog: already met.
text: We see Baby take a big breath before walking back in.
scene_heading: 51 INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - MOMENTS LATER 51
text: Walking through the doorway of Doc’s warehouse, we see what
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: BATS
text: He’s got tinnitus. A hum in his drum
text: that he has to drown out by playing
dialog: music all the time.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: You know who else does that exact same
dialog: thing? Barbra Streisand.
text: Bats takes offense at this. Stares at Darling.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Do I look like a fucking guy who knows
dialog: a _ fucking thing about Barbra fucking
dialog: Streisand?
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: That’s my lady. Watch your mouth.
text: Bats just laughs. Darling takes a cue to powder her nose. Baby
text: sits on the opposite side of the room to Bats. Buddy walks over.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: That true? You listen to music to
dialog: drown out a noise in your head?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh. Yeah. And when I don’t want to
dialog: think about stuff.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: It’s an escape. I get it.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: It gets me moving, you know. Music
dialog: makes everything better.
speaker_heading: BATS (0.S.)
dialog: Oh, I am playing the violin right now.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Knock it off.
dialog: (sits, continues quietly)
dialog: I used to do the same thing. Used to
dialog: fool around with cars when I was a
dialog: kid. Drive all night, hopped up,
dialog: listening to the radio. I used to have a
dialog: special tape. Used to have my track.
dialog: My one killer track that would get me
dialog: flying. You got one of those?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Sure.
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: What’s yours?
text: Baby speaks phonetically. Like he’s never said the title aloud.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: ‘Bry-ton Rokk’.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I know ‘Brighton Rock’. Queen right?
dialog: My big brother used to play ‘Sheer
text: Heart Attack’ right through the wall.
dialog: You got it on there?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Not this one.
text: Baby swaps out the iPod he has plugged in, for another one in
text: his jacket. His deep pockets have lots of devices it seems.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT'D)
dialog: This one.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Play it.
text: Baby finds it. Plays the intro to ‘Brighton Rock’ by Queen.
text: Buddy takes one earphone. It’s a weirdly intimate image of two
text: men sharing one pair of earphones.
text: We hear a fairground organ. Then a chugging electric guitar.
text: Buddy nods, grins, reliving his teenage rock years.
text: Bats looks over at them both, incredulous.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: What are you faggots listening to?
speaker_heading: BUDDY BABY
dialog: Queen. Queen.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: First Streisand, now Queen? Are you
dialog: three going to be belting out show
dialog: tunes on the way to the job? You don’t
dialog: need that shit. You don’t need a score
dialog: for a score. Just drive a fucking car.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Come on. You’ve been a wheel man. You
dialog: never had a lucky song?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: A cigarette song? Yes. Aprés heist
dialog: with a glass of scotch? Absolutely.
dialog: But not on the way to a job. Don’t
dialog: need any extra noise. I got enough
dialog: demons making music up here.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I believe that.
text: Bats warms to his theme. Turns his chair to face them.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: My old buddy wanted to pull out of a
dialog: job because of what was playing on the
dialog: radio. We're about to go in, he won’t
dialog: get out of the car. Why? Guns & Roses’
text: ‘Knockin’ On Heaven's Door’ is playing
text: on the FM. Gives him the heebs. He
dialog: says we all gonna die in there.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: So you bailed on the job?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Nah. We did it. And he was half right.
dialog: He bought it. I didn’t. Fucking crazy.
text: Bats jumps up now. Seems to be a little coked up.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: And I‘1l tell you another thing.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Can’t wait.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: My uncle used to be a movie nut. And
dialog: we used to ride together, pulling off
dialog: liquor stores. He was my road dog. And
dialog: he used to say we should get chase
dialog: music ready next time we get ina
dialog: chase. I say like what? He says get
text: the chase music from Bullitt. He was
dialog: way into Steve McQueen, not Queen. And
dialog: so I goes into some record store and I
dialog: pocket me the Bullitt soundtrack. And
dialog: guess what? We can’t find the track.
dialog: Know why? There is no fucking chase
dialog: music in Bullitt. It’s just the noise
dialog: of the car.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 52
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: So I said to my uncle, that’s the only
dialog: music you need, the sound of a 390 V8
text: in a third gear four-wheel slide,
dialog: there's your music. My uncle didn’t
dialog: believe me, he said there’s definitely
dialog: music in the Bullitt chase and I said
text: yeah there is, it’s VROOOOM VROOOOOOM
speaker_heading: VROOOOOOM.
dialog: (.--)
dialog: This was all before I stabbed him.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: All your stories end with someone
dialog: dying?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I guess you’ll find out Buddy.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Oh, that’s funny.
text: Bats grins at Buddy. Darling re-enters. Senses tension.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: What’s funny?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: What’s Bullitt?
text: Doc clicks his fingers.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I need eyes and ears open, people.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: You got it, Doc. What’s happening?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Watts. That’s what’s happening.
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - MOMENTS LATER 52
dialog: ‘This Is Soul’ by Paul Nero.
text: Doc relates the plan on the chalkboard. Again Baby drowns this out
text: with incongruously jazzy music in his ears.
text: This time Baby only half watches. He looks up at the lights,
text: blots them out with his fingers in time with the music. He then
text: plays with TOY CARS on the table. But makes them CRASH into one
text: another. The song ends as Doc wraps up.
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You get all that Baby?
text: All eyes are on Baby to reiterate the plan. But he is not as
text: impressive as before, stuttering through the following.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Uh. The plan is hit this post office.
dialog: You know a guy who has a...
dialog: (stalls)
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Money order machine.
speaker_heading: BABY
text: We get the order slips themselves and
dialog: it’s literally a license to print
dialog: money. Every money order is a
dialog: potential 700 dollars, each box of
text: money orders has 250 slips in there.
dialog: That’s 175 K for every box you get...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: And for the icing on top?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Tomorrow is the day after people get
dialog: their welfare, which means there’s a
dialog: lot of their cash in there tomorrow
dialog: afternoon. Plan is...go in there. Get
dialog: the money orders. And the cash. I get
dialog: a used car as the g-ride and the
dialog: switch car is one of ours. We come
dialog: back here after and uh...that’s it.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You missed stuff.
text: Baby goes red. Like a child embarrassed in front of class.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: The plan is that Darling goes in
text: first. Then me and Bats. I take her
text: hostage, put shotgun to her head.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: We've role-played this a lot.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: That gets the door open. And gets us
dialog: where the money is. And where the
dialog: money orders are.
dialog: 53
dialog: 54
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: And the guns?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I don’t know...
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I got some contacts to get us hardware
dialog: that’s fresh and clean. Keep up Rain
dialog: Man, we picking it up tonight.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: And then what are you going to do?
text: Baby stalls. Doc is disappointed. Becomes more intense.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: You're going to stay here tonight.
dialog: There’s a lot of heat around and we
dialog: need to mix up our routines. So you
dialog: guys better learn to live together.
text: Bats breaks into a wide toothy grin.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Oh, we in bed together now!
scene_heading: INT. ‘96 CADILLAC DEVILLE - NIGHT 53
text: ‘Nowhere To Run’ by Martha and the Vandellas.
text: Baby drives. Bats in shotgun. Buddy and Darling in back. She
text: sings along. She has some really good lungs.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: “Nowhere to run to Baby!"
text: For once, everyone in the car is enjoying the music. Everyone
text: except Baby, who looks like he wants to be somewhere, anywhere
dialog: else.
dialog: On the line “I know you know you're no good for me", Baby looks
text: at Bats, a dread descending. Bats motions to pull over.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CADILLAC DEVILLE/GAS STATION - NIGHT 54
text: Bats jumps out of the passenger door.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I gotta take a leak. You guys want
dialog: anything while I’m in there?
dialog: 57.
text: Everyone shrugs a negative response.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Gum? How about you Darling? Gum?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Sure, I’ll take some gum.
text: Bats saunters off. Baby watches him walk up to the gas station
text: where a MALE CLERK is behind the counter.
text: Buddy and Darling smooch. Baby glances at this in his rear
dialog: view.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey. Not in front of the Baby.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: He don’t mind. And I never seen you
dialog: complain when I put on a show before.
dialog: (another noisy smooch)
dialog: How much do you think there’s going to
dialog: be tomorrow?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: If it were just me, enough to live on
dialog: for the year. But if we’re talking the
dialog: two of us, enough for one weekend.
dialog: (to Baby)
dialog: My fiancé has expensive taste.
text: Darling breaks out of the embrace, hits him playfully.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Hey, blame it all on me why don’t cha?
dialog: You got a problem too.
dialog: (to Baby)
dialog: This one has a gambling problem too.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I do not have a gambling problem. They
dialog: call it gaming now.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Fine, we both have a gaming problem.
dialog: See? That don’t sound so bad.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Hey, it ain’t a problem if you keep
dialog: winning, right Baby?
text: Baby looks back into the gas station. He can’t see Bats OR the
text: clerk anymore. It doesn’t feel good at all. He mutters.
dialog: 55
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yessir.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Oh hey baby. Was going ask, what’s a
dialog: good Egyptian reggae song?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: ...‘Egyptian Reggae’.
text: The door opens. A grinning Bats is back. He dumps whole armfuls
text: of chewing gum onto Buddy. Packets and packets.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: The fuck? Did you just swipe this?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: You said you wanted gum! What am I
dialog: going to do, pay for it?
text: Baby looks back to the gas station. Still can’t see the clerk.
text: He peels out fast.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CADILLAC DEVILLE/OUTSIDE TRAIN YARD - EVENING 55
text: ‘Fog On The Hudson’ by Moondog.
text: The gang wait in the dark outside a deserted train yard.
text: Headlights off. It’s eerie quiet. Inside, everyone chews gum.
text: Save for Baby who doesn’t look like he wants to play anymore.
text: Bats flexes his hands. We see his single glove.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: The one glove? Is that a Michael
dialog: Jackson thing?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Fuck no. It’s not a Michael Jackson
dialog: thing. It’s all me. I wanna make an
dialog: impression.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Oh, you make an impression.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: They don’t know the name Bats but you
dialog: better believe they heard of the One
dialog: Glove Bandit. I come into a bank and
dialog: the business manager sees this glove
dialog: come off, he knows I mean business.
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: You not worried you’1l get recognized?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: That’s the genius Darling. When I
dialog: think they’re onto me, I just -
text: He slips on a second glove too.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: And now I could be anyone.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Anyone wearing gloves. In summer.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: You got it.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Whatever you say, MJ.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Fuck you Buddy. I did the one glove
text: before him.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: How old are you?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I am thirty seven years young.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Jackson did the one glove at least
dialog: thirty years ago. So what, you were
dialog: robbing banks at the age of five?
text: Bats shrugs as if to say “Maybe I was...”.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: You're crazy Bats.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Hey, your parents call you Bats, you
dialog: gonna turn out crazy.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Come on. Bats isn’t your real name.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: You doubting I’m Bats? I can show you
dialog: my ID anytime buddy.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: 57
dialog: 61.
dialog: That doesn’t sound good.
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED RAIL YARD - MOMENTS LATER 57
text: ‘Tequila’ by The Button Down Brass.
text: Cowbells play in Baby's ears. A bass part kicks in as -
text: Our foursome approach the truck and the semi-circle of black
text: SUVs with tinted windows. In the center of this gathering,
text: portable work lights illuminate crates covered by a tarp.
text: Four linen suited gorillas flank the crates (we’ll call them
text: FARMERS) and a more urbane man (THE BUTCHER) stands in the
text: middle, quietly makes a list to himself.
text: As they walk up. Bats discreetly offers Baby a pistol.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Take this. Look serious.
text: Baby looks at the pistol being offered. Stalls on taking it.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Is he going to need it?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: He needs to swagger in like he’s got
dialog: one. Let ‘em know we ain’t a bunch of
dialog: pussies. Darling excluded of course.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Oh please.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Baby, take the gun. It’s not like I’m
dialog: asking you to hold my cock.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: It ain’t a million miles away.
text: Baby takes the pistol, just as they come within shouting range
text: of the men gathered around the crates.
text: The tallest of the ‘Farmers’, ARMIE, a thick-necked giant looks
text: straight at Baby, with his earphones in and shades on.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: Who’s the geek?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: This is our Baby Boy.
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: What’s with the ears? That a wire?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: It’s just his tunes. He’s a little
dialog: Looney Tunes and he needs his tunes.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: Oh yeah? How we supposed to know it’s
dialog: not the police or something?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Is it the police?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: It’s not The Police.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: Yeah? What is it?
text: Baby looks at his iPod display.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: ‘Tequila’.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Tequila! Hey, why did the Mexican push
dialog: his wife off a cliff? Ah, I ruined it-
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: To business?
text: The Butcher starts proceedings by throwing back the tarp. The
text: crates are stencilled with ‘LAPD’. On top of them is a huge
text: smorgasbord of GUNS AND AMMO. Black gun metal gleams at them.
speaker_heading: THE BUTCHER
dialog: Tonight gentlemen, ladies, we have
dialog: only the finest cuts of pork. Direct
text: from local smokehouse.
dialog: On Darling: ‘What?’
speaker_heading: THE BUTCHER (CONT'D)
dialog: You are experienced butchers
dialog: yourselves, so as I am sure you are
dialog: aware the humble pig can be cooked
dialog: from nose to tail. So I can offer you
dialog: nine cuts at the best prices in all of
dialog: Christendom.
text: The Butcher motions in turn to Berettas, Smith & Wessons,
text: Glocks, Kimbers, Colts, Heckler & Kochs and Remingtons.
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: THE BUTCHER (CONT'D)
dialog: So let’s dive in head first: from the
dialog: jowl we have the God-sent Roman bacon
dialog: that is Guanciale. Actually from the
dialog: shoulder of the hog comes the Boston
dialog: Butt, a tough but tasty cut. Then the
dialog: Picnic Shoulder is a favorite for those
dialog: who enjoy the smoking of pigs. Then
dialog: center cut loin, double cut pork chops,
dialog: baby back ribs, pork belly and Serrano
text: ham on the back leg. Every one delicious.
text: The Butcher gestures to a wide array of ammo and grenades.
speaker_heading: THE BUTCHER (CONT'D)
dialog: And of course, we also have a fine
dialog: selection of sausages.
text: Buddy, Darling and Baby look bemused. Bats claps his hands.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I’m hungry.
speaker_heading: THE BUTCHER
dialog: Fantastique. And how will we be paying
dialog: this evening gentlemen... ladies?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Do you take bullets?
speaker_heading: THE BUTCHER
dialog: How do you mean?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Like this.
text: A trumpet hits a loud blast of 'F', as suddenly -
text: BRAP. Bats draws and shoots the Butcher POINT BLANK in the
text: face. He drops. Dead. WHAT THE -—
text: The big Farmer guys, caught off guard, reach for their arms.
text: Stunned, Buddy, Darling and Baby hit the deck.
text: Bats then SMOKES the nearest Farmer. As his body falls, Bats
text: rolls down next to his corpse. Grabs his machine pistol.
text: The song hits a breakdown where duelling drummers madly flail
text: away at each other in furious patterns as -
text: BRAT BRAT BRAT. The remaining farmers LET RIP with their
text: machine pistols and shotguns at the air Bats just vacated.
dialog: 64.
text: The syncopation of music and action is shocking and awesome.
text: Over crates and car hoods, the fire fight between Bats and the
text: three Farmers as the duelling drum solo intensifies, each burst
text: of gunfire matched by a burst of drums.
text: The noises echo around the train yard. A portable light is
text: knocked over, creating dramatic under lighting. Buddy and
text: Darling are forced to join the violent melee.
text: From the deck, Baby has a sideways angle on a six way fight.
text: Gunfire builds. Shells drop. Car windows smash.
text: The drums on the track get louder and louder as Baby watches
text: his colleagues spew hot lead. BRAT BRAT BRAT BRAT.
text: One Farmer aims at Baby. Baby rolls out of the way and runs
text: like hell. He is trailed by bullets, dives over a crate for
dialog: safety.
text: The tempo peaks, there's a last burst of drums and guns. And -
text: Baby looks up. The train yard is quiet again. There are five
text: bodies on the ground that appeared to be alive seconds ago.
text: He cannot comprehend what he has just witnessed.
text: Bats is out of ammo. Grabs a nearby clip. Winks to Buddy, who
text: strides over and goes to strike Bats with his pistol.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: What the fuck?
text: Bats dodges and shoves Buddy right back.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey! I just got us some hardware!
dialog: We've never seen Buddy this mad. It’s not fun.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: You shot the gunsmiths! I thought
dialog: these were your contacts?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Yeah. They were my contacts.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Are you fucking crazy?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I believe we established I was. Why,
dialog: do you still wanna see my ID?
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: You didn’t think to tell us your plan?
dialog: We come in here with no masks, no
dialog: nothing -
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Yeah, what if they recognized us?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Those what-ifs are dead Darling.
dialog: They’re ghosts now. Only way they’1ll
dialog: finger us is through a Ouija board.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Well your name is only four letters to
dialog: spell out.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Pah. Bats ain’t my real name.
text: In ‘Tequila’, a huge trill of brass sounds as -
text: We see one of the farmers is not dead. He runs past Baby,
text: toward one of the SUVs. Bats yells at Baby, who is closest.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t let him get away, Baby!
text: Baby has his gun in his hand, but does not fire. The farmer
text: jumps in the SUV. Makes a break for the entrance. Fuck -—
text: Instead Bats lets rip at the fleeing vehicle. Buddy and Darling
text: grab a shotgun and mini pistol from the dead and also unload.
text: Baby hangs back and pointedly does not join in with the
text: shooting. His face says everything. He doesn't want this.
text: Wailing brass, furious drums and hammond organs score a barrage
text: of bullets that stop the escapee dead in his tracks.
text: We hear a sustained HORN, as the driver slumps on his dash.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Baby. Get us out. Move!
text: No time to argue. Baby grabs another abandoned SUV as Bats,
text: Darling and Buddy grab as many guns as they can carry.
text: Baby starts the car. In his haste, one ear bud has dropped out,
text: meaning that Bats can hear the track as he jumps in the
text: passenger seat with a lot of hardware in his arms.
text: Baby waits for the others, then floors it.
dialog: 58
dialog: 66.
text: The brass in the final bridge reaches a resounding climax as
text: they pass their old Cadillac, Bats takes a grenade, flicks the
text: safety and throws it into the open window.
text: As the car goes KA-BOOM in the night, Bats sings along -
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Te-quiiiii-laaaaaaa!
scene_heading: INT. SUV - NIGHT 58
text: The foursome drive in the newly acquired SUV. All are silent.
text: Bats is still jonesing from the previous encounter.
text: Baby drives past his usual DINER and subtly looks in to see if
text: Debora is working. Before he can establish this -
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Hey, pull in here.
text: Baby does not. Keeps driving.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Pull in here. I’m hungry.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Stop the car.
text: Baby stops. Bats fixes him. Furious.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: No? You telling me no?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No. I don’t want to go in there.
text: Baby is firm. Bats breaks into a sickly grin. Cackles.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Well hel-lo Baby. I never seen you so
dialog: mad. You saw a bunch of bodies hit the
dialog: floor and you didn’t say nothing, but
dialog: for some reason, you get all mad about
dialog: this one diner.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I don’t like it in there. It sucks.
dialog: 59
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Well on that recommendation, we gots
dialog: to go in.
scene_heading: INT. HALF EMPTY DINER - NIGHT 59
dialog: ‘When Something Is Wrong With My Baby’ by Sam & Dave.
text: This song plays on the diner’s stereo system. Opens with -
speaker_heading: SAM & DAVE
dialog: “When something is wrong with my baby,
dialog: something is wrong with me."
text: Debora is dealing with one sole customer at the counter, she
text: looks bored and distant. Then the door opens and in walks -
text: An intense looking Bats, a grim Buddy and Darling. And behind
text: them, Baby. He pointedly looks at Debora, his sunglasses very
text: firmly on. He is not smiling. She’s never seemed so far away.
text: She gets that something's up. It's as ominous as him and Doc in
text: the parking lot. She’s also never seen him with sunglasses on.
text: In fact she’s never seen a booth of four people all with
text: sunglasses on at night. It’s as weird to us as it is to her.
text: At the booth, Bats soaks up the tension. Loves it.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Now why you all still mad at me?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Because you have a death wish and we
dialog: don’t.
text: Buddy talks calmly, but intensely. Tears a napkin into strips.
text: Baby and Darling are caught awkwardly in the middle.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: We’re all going to end up in a chair.
dialog: Maybe see out your days in a lawn
dialog: chair at Holiday Villa, maybe settle
dialog: with the electric one. Might be just
dialog: me, but the latter sounds funner.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: It’s just you. You revel in bad
dialog: choices. In bad luck. And that’s bad
dialog: business.
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: What’s bad luck to you are more open
dialog: doors for me. So I’m gonna pick
dialog: thirteen as my lucky number and make
dialog: hay while you Hail Mary.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Whatever you do on your own time is
dialog: fine. What you do within this group
dialog: affects us all.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Don’t worry Buddy. I ain’t gonna mess
dialog: up. I know you have noses to feed.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Oh. Because you never take drugs.
text: Baby has been watching Debora the whole time. She comes over.
text: Senses the sour mood. Plays it cool.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Can I get you anything to drink?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I think it’s Coke all around.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
text: Three cokes.
text: This strikes Darling as odd. She looks at Baby, who stares down
text: at his menu. When Debora leaves, Bats continues.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Here's the thing. You rob to support a
dialog: drug habit. I take drugs to support a
dialog: robbery habit.
dialog: (to Baby)
dialog: Baby boy. What you do this for?
text: Baby's glances at Debora. But says nothing.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: The cash? The girls? Or is it just the
dialog: smell of burning rubber?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I guess.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: So, we in agreement. We’re all about
dialog: the white line fever.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Yeah. You're real funny.
text: During this exchange, Debora looks at Baby, deeply concerned.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I'm deadly serious. This is my job.
dialog: It’s you two who’s on vacation.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: What is that supposed to mean?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: You're Wall Street right?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Doc tell you that?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Doc tells me nothing. I am just
dialog: guessing.
text: Buddy glowers. Sub zero sarcasm.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I would be fascinated to hear your
dialog: thoughts.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Stop me if I’m way off. But I’m thinking
dialog: you were a stockbroker, maybe with a
dialog: previous fiance, maybe a wife, maybe
dialog: kids. You're making good money, you’re
dialog: good at your work, but you also play
dialog: hard. And you like the wild side too
dialog: much, get in too deep, rack up debts
dialog: that would make even your employers
dialog: blush. So either you get laid off or
dialog: someone wants to break your legs. You
dialog: decide to run off, maybe take your
text: favorite lap dancer in tow, head out to
dialog: the desert and disappear into your
dialog: double life, concentrate on the three
dialog: things that get you high: the money, the
dialog: boogaloo, the sex, the action. Okay four
dialog: things. But am I close?
text: Buddy is still unamused. Then -
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: I will have you know I was a feature
text: dancer, not a lap dancer.
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: What’s the difference?
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: It means my name was on the marquee. And
dialog: I could charge quadruple for dances.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Well then ignore everything I said.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: You doubt my credentials?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Just saying you're on a trip right
dialog: now. And maybe it’s one you’re not
dialog: coming back from. Either way, if
dialog: you're from Wall Street you’re already
dialog: a bigger crook than I’1l ever be.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Two things. Don’t underestimate me.
dialog: And don’t ever speak ill about my
dialog: lady. Or I will see red and you will
text: see nothing but black.
text: Buddy is scary when angered. Bats breaks into a big grin.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Where did you find her? Vegas? Reno? I
dialog: think maybe it was Morongo.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: What makes you say that?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: ‘Cause that’s where the Morons-Go.
text: Buddy’s eyes glaze over. He shifts in his seat. Grips a fork.
text: It's fucking terrifying to see him shift. Bats just laughs.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: You seeing this Baby? This is what
text: happens when a man loves a woman.
text: Debora comes over with the three Cokes.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: What can I get you to eat?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: These cats need a happy meal. But I’m
dialog: just gonna get the check... Debora.
dialog: 71.
text: Baby sees that for the first time. Debora is wearing a ‘Debora’
text: name tag. Bats then throws an arm around Baby.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh and my friend here hates this
dialog: place. I think it’s okay. So I wanna
dialog: ask you, what’s his problem?
text: Baby cannot look up at Debora. She replies coldly.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Maybe your friend would like to fill
dialog: out a suggestion slip and tell us how
dialog: we could improve our service.
text: Debora puts their check on the table and leaves without looking
text: at Baby. Darling guesses something’s up.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Are you two fucking? Or you were fucking?
dialog: You fucked her and didn’t call her back.
dialog: Or she didn’t call. Something’s up. I can
text: definitely smell fuck in the air.
text: Baby goes red. Wants to curl up and die.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I don’t know about that.
dialog: (to Buddy and Darling)
dialog: You two, I got down pat. I can’t get a
dialog: read on Dum Dum here.
text: We let the song play as Baby looks up at Debora behind the
dialog: counter. Longs to be anywhere else with her. When-
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Come on, let’s bounce. You guys go on
dialog: out to the car. I got this.
text: Darling and Buddy leave. Baby moves past Bats and sees -
text: Bats pull the gun from his jacket. Then, like lightning -
text: Baby GRABS Bats’ arm. Firmly stops him.
text: Bats is shocked at this action. Baby has never touched him
text: before and now holds down Bats’ gun arm with real force.
text: Buddy turns and sees this too. He checks to see if anyone in
text: the diner sees what’s going on. They don’t.
dialog: 60
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: SAM & DAVE
dialog: “When something is wrong with my baby,
dialog: something is wrong with me."
text: Baby looks determined, emotional. Bats then breaks into another
text: wide grin. Impressed. He backs off.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Be sure to tip the nice lady.
text: Baby takes the check and goes to the counter. He puts it down
text: and goes to exit, without saying anything to Debora.
text: Debora sees under the check folder. An iPod. The pink one.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Hey, you left your -
text: Baby doesn’t look back. Carries on walking out.
text: Debora looks down to see. Cued up on the iPod. ‘Debora’.
text: She looks at Baby silently depart. She’s worried for him.
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - NIGHT 60
text: Doc enters. He’s instantly aware of -
text: A mood. And three camps. Bats on the opposite side of the room
text: to Buddy and Darling, while Baby lies on his makeshift bed in
text: another part of the room, facing away. His headphones are on.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Who died?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: A better question: ‘who didn’t?’.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I count four. Something happen I
dialog: should know about?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: A little trouble procuring the
dialog: hardware.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Trouble?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: There was no trouble. Just a little
text: haggling.
dialog: 73.
text: Doc senses there’s something else to tell. Gets serious.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: This going to bite me in the ass?
text: Buddy and Darling say nothing. Bats grins wide.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Nothing’s going to bite no-one. We got
dialog: this Doc. You got no worries with us
dialog: three here.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You three?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I can’t speak for the mute.
text: Doc looks to Baby. He closes a partition in the loft space, so
text: Baby is now separated from them.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Something wrong with Baby? He’s been a
dialog: problem?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Jesus. He's not the problem.
text: Bats warms to this new theme, keen to distract Doc.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I don’t know. I’m starting to think he
dialog: is the crazy one on this team.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Riiight.
speaker_heading: BATS
text: I saw the first glints of steel in
dialog: Baby tonight, but not when he had a
text: gun in his hand. He’s real quiet then
dialog: he can get real emotional. And over
dialog: some dumb waitress.
text: This registers with Doc.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: A waitress, huh?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: All that emotion worries me Doc.
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: What are you worried about other than him
text: turning left, him turning right and him
dialog: knowing when the light turns green?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Him turning yellow and squealing?
speaker_heading: DOC
text: That ain’t gonna happen. He squeals on
text: the asphalt not to the cops.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: And you done how many jobs with him?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Hey mouth, if you can’t take my
dialog: fucking word for something, get back
text: in the elevator.
dialog: I’'ll bet that kid started earlier than
dialog: any of you. You ever hear of the
dialog: Pacific Ghost?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: The joyrider?
speaker_heading: DOC
text: Used to bait cops by zooming through
text: Malibu speed traps. Going 100 mph with
text: his headlights off, brake lights
text: disconnected. Begging the police to
text: chase him. Then leaving ‘em in the
dialog: dust. That was our boy.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Wasn’t that like ten years ago?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Like I said, that was our boy. He's
dialog: been boosting cars since he was old
text: enough to see over the dash.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: So how’d you find him?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: He stole a Merc of mine. With a ton of my
dialog: merch in it. I saw him do it too. I
dialog: didn't stop him right away either,
dialog: because I was just like - the balls on
dialog: this kid.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 61
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: He didn’t know who I was or what he was
dialog: stealing but when I finally tracked him
dialog: down I made sure to tell him who I was,
dialog: what I do and what I am capable of. And
dialog: he went on to pay me off and show me what
dialog: he’s capable of. I figured if he likes to
dialog: joy ride so much, we might as well make
dialog: some money from it.
text: We see Baby is awake and listening through the partition.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: Turns out his dad used to work for me
dialog: way back. But that kid is a better
dialog: criminal than his father ever was. Baby
dialog: is going to do a great job tomorrow. And
dialog: you are going come right back here and
dialog: apologize to me. You mark my words.
text: Baby hears this, but doesn’t want to. He CLOSES HIS EYES.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK: A HIGH PITCHED WHINE ON SOUNDTRACK
text: - We see YOUNG BABY sitting in the diner. His Mom is working at
text: the counter talking to a male customer. Baby's Dad is also
text: present and staring at the male customer intensely.
text: - We then see Baby's Mom in a modest recording studio. She is
text: behind the glass and we cannot hear what she is singing.
text: - In the studio are Baby's unsmiling father and the (younger)
text: Elderly Man. He is an engineer behind the mixing desk. As
text: Baby's Mom sings, the Elderly Man turns to Baby and gives a
dialog: thumbs up.
text: - We see Young Baby in the backseat of a car, watching his Dad
text: hold up a gas station clerk at gunpoint.
text: - Baby's Dad dumps a bunch of CANDY BARS on the back seat.
text: - The Mom drives. She cries. The Dad yells.
text: - We see the car about to slam into the pick up truck-
text: - The candy falls off the back seat. So does the iPod.
text: - Young Baby closes his eyes. The WHINE peaks.
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - LATER 61
dialog: ‘Ready Let’s Go’ by Boards of Canada.
dialog: 62
dialog: 76.
text: Some time later. Doc is gone. Bats sleeps in a chair. Buddy and
text: Darling curl up on a couch.
text: Baby quickly gathers his things in the dark. And sneaks out.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING P3 - NIGHT 62
text: Baby walks from the freight elevator to the SUV. He gets in.
text: Starts up. But when he pulls out toward the exit.
text: Buddy is waiting for him. Blocking his path.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Where you going, Baby?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Coffee.
text: Buddy walks to the driver’s window. Baby remains very quiet.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: At 2AM? That doesn’t sound too smart.
dialog: Or much like you either.
dialog: (.--)
dialog: Look you're a good kid. I said you
dialog: shouldn't have picked up that phone.
dialog: But here you are. And that’s cool if
dialog: you're really committed to the job.
dialog: But if you're in it for the buzz, I
dialog: say go on your Starbucks run and don’t
dialog: come back. Because bad things happen.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Doc said your Dad was in this
dialog: business.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: He was.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: But I’m not sure you are. You can’t
dialog: dip your toes, you’re either in the
dialog: pool or you’re not. If this is just
dialog: your escape, then go.
speaker_heading: BATS (0.S.)
dialog: What we talking about here?
text: Bats is standing outside the elevator. Buddy covers.
dialog: 63
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Just about how we should all be
dialog: getting more sleep before tomorrow.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: It don’t look like that.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: What does it look like?
speaker_heading: BATS
text: Looks like he’s going somewhere at 2 in
dialog: the morning. You going somewhere Baby?
text: Baby looks back to Buddy. Then to Bats.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Good, because we gotta talk about
dialog: this.
text: Bats is holding a Sony handheld cassette recorder. Baby
text: searches his jacket for his. Bats stops him.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Yeah, it’s the same one.
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - MOMENTS LATER 63
text: A D90 audio cassette plays in the handheld recorder. Baby sits
text: in the middle of the room. Forced to listen. We can hear the
text: hum in his ears again, underlining the tense mood.
text: Buddy and Bats stand over him. Bats has his gun out. Darling
text: sits in the corner. From the tape, we hear recent dialogue.
speaker_heading: DOC (ON TAPE)
dialog: What are you worried about other than
text: him turning left, him turning right and
dialog: him knowing when the light turns green?
speaker_heading: BATS (ON TAPE)
dialog: Him turning yellow and squealing?
text: Bats presses stop. He is deadly serious.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Now why you go and do that?
text: Baby stammers, but is aware he needs to speak up. And fast.
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I like to record stuff.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: And why do you like to record stuff.
dialog: Are you the police? Are you a snitch?
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Didn’t Doc work with his Dad?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: That don’t mean nothing. He could be
dialog: working out his daddy issues on us. Or
dialog: maybe, just maybe he is fucking
dialog: retarded. Are you?
text: Baby doesn’t want to answer that. Stalls.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: I think he’s just acting the fool.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I asked him. But ‘acting’ is right.
dialog: What if this is a cover? What if Harpo
dialog: here is a real Serpico?
text: All eyes on Baby.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Speak up, Baby.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I... I just like to listen to what
dialog: people say. I don’t always understand
dialog: first time out. So I listen back to
dialog: the words. To understand. And I like
dialog: to make music out of it. It’s just me
text: fooling. Fooling around.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: That is one fucking dumbass excuse.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: To be fair, a cop would not come up with
dialog: an excuse as fucking dumbass as that.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I’m calling Doc.
text: Baby doesn’t want that to happen. Blurts out.
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I can play you one. Of my tapes. Of
dialog: the music I make.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Where are they?
speaker_heading: BABY
text: At home.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Well, looks like we are going
text: somewhere at 2 in the morning.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. SUV - MOMENTS LATER 64
text: The hum in Baby's ears underscores this section, adding uneasy
text: menace as the SUV drives fast down deserted streets.
text: Baby is in the back seat. Buddy drives. Bats is in shotgun with
text: his gun lightly trained on Baby. Stereo is silent.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: No music for you. You ain’t moving.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BLOCK - MOMENTS LATER 65
text: The SUV pulls up outside Baby’s apartment block. Baby and Bats
text: get out. Buddy stays in the car.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Watch that fire escape.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT BLOCK - MOMENTS LATER 66
text: Bats and Baby ascend in the extremely slow exposed elevator.
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT —- MOMENTS LATER 67
text: Baby walks in first. The TV is on, but barely illuminates the
text: room. Bats enters, flicks the light switch. It’s still out.
text: Bats observes the dimly lit room. He’s both surprised and yet
text: not at how bare and simple it is.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: This is your place?
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: It’s my foster dad’s.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: And where’s he?
text: The Elderly Man is asleep in his chair. But Bats does not
text: notice a person is present. It looks like a big old blanket.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: ..-He’s dead.
text: Baby does not acknowledge the old man. He walks right over to a
text: pile of tapes on the kitchen counter.
text: He takes the pile of D30s. Turns to Bats and softly says.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT'D)
dialog: Got ‘em.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: This better be good, Baby.
scene_heading: 68 INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - LATER 68
text: Buddy and Bats stand over Baby at the tape recorder. Darling,
text: again, is in the corner. He presses play.
text: The montage that plays is a collage of almost all dialogue
text: we've heard so far. A nonsense medley of crosscut dialogue. It
text: builds into odd rhythms. Sounding awesome, but absurd.
text: Bats presses stop. Buddy shuts his eyes.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: What the fuck did I just listen to?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Like I said. I was fooling around.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Did we not establish what happens when
dialog: you act the fool with me?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I wasn’t acting. I am one.
dialog: A pause. Then -
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Well hell, I like it. It’s funny.
dialog: 69
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I say we get someone else.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: At this time of night?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Anyone you’ve worked with that’s still
dialog: alive?
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: You two are still alive.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I’m so honored.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Lemme think about what to do while I
dialog: give the kid a ride home.
text: Bats tucks his gun into his waistband and puts his jacket on.
text: Baby does not like the look of this. He speaks firmly.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I can do this. I’m driving tomorrow.
dialog: I’m not retarded. I’m fast. I’m
dialog: driving.
text: Buddy and Bats exchange looks.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Let him. So what? He recorded stuff.
dialog: Big deal. I was kinda hoping someone
dialog: got all the pork nonsense on tape
dialog: because that was bananas.
dialog: (..-)
dialog: Besides I kinda wanna hear the rest of
dialog: the tape.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Oh yeah? Well go get it.
text: Bats throws the D30 cassette out of the window.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - EARLY MORNING 69
text: We see a smashed cassette. The audio tape spooled out on the
text: concrete like brown spaghetti. The morning sun rises.
dialog: 70
dialog: 71
dialog: 72
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - EARLY MORNING 70
text: Doc enters to find Buddy, Darling & Bats dressed in civilian
text: attire for the robbery. They look weirdly normal.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Where’s Baby?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I’m going to guess... in the car.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING P3 - MOMENTS LATER 71
dialog: ‘Movement One’ by Herbie Flowers & Barry Morgan.
text: PING. Buddy, Bats and Darling exit the elevator to find -
text: A blue Mitsubishi Galant. Baby at the wheel. Eyes fixed forward.
text: Hands ten to two. Music pumping on the stereo.
text: The gang get in. Buddy and Darling in back. Bats in shotgun.
text: Bats kills the stereo. Produces a coke spoon. Takes a big snort.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Now I’m going to make this clear. You
dialog: can listen on your phones or do
dialog: whatever it is you need to do. But I
dialog: don’t want to hear none of your
dialog: bullshit today.
text: Baby silently plugs his earphones into the iPod. The music
text: continues in Baby’s head and our ears.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Let’s get this over with.
text: Baby pulls out. Heads for the ‘EXIT’.
scene_heading: INT. MITSUBISHI GALANT - DAY 72
text: ‘Music For The Head Ballet’ by The Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band.
text: A solo harpsichord plays a jolly fairground intro as the gang
text: cruises down Century Boulevard. Very slowly.
text: Baby listens to the music in his earphones as they reach the
dialog: intersection of Success Avenue. And find themselves in -
text: Gridlock. Some construction is up ahead. It’s the middle of the
text: school run. Cars slow to a stop. It’s a bad time for a jam.
dialog: 83.
text: Baby signals, his indicator in sync with the 4/4 tempo. The
text: track becomes a woozy waltz, repeating a ‘down then up’ pattern
text: that goes around and around as the traffic maddens.
text: The Galant idles in the left hand lane. Baby begins to sweat.
text: Unsure of the neighborhood. The air con blasting.
text: Bats’ cocaine seems to kick in, his restlessness changing the
text: simpatico of action and music from being magical to menacing.
text: Buddy taps his fingers on a seat rest in time with the music.
text: Darling flicks through the pages of a magazine, also in time.
text: Bats cocks and uncocks his shotgun in time. Baby eyes this.
text: The whole hood is alive with incident, all in time with the
text: track. Kids shouting. Angry neighbors. A police helicopter.
text: The sound of chopper blades prompts the gang to all look up.
text: When they look back down a COP CAR is right alongside them.
text: Their next door neighbor in the traffic jam is THE POLICE.
dialog: 
text: A change of key in the track. The four gang members all look
text: straight forward, eyes fixed on the static road ahead. Then -
text: The music resumes its woozy waltz as the gang take turns to
text: look at the cops. The glances are furtive first, then more
text: confident. The dance of their turning heads is very surreal.
text: As the melody accentuates the odd notes, we see the cops look
text: back at the gang in the Galant. We take in the odd magic of -
text: Four gang members and two cops, all wearing shades, trying to
text: inconspicuously check each other out in time with a waltz.
text: Baby doesn’t want to see Bats slowly raising his shotgun. Out
text: of sight of the cops, but ready to fire.
text: Then suddenly, the Cop driving, points right towards Bats.
text: Bats does a ‘who me?’ The Cop shakes his head. Then -
text: POINTS at Baby. Motions for him to take off his earphones.
text: Baby does so. The waltz concludes. Bat smiles.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Yeah Baby. It’s the law.
text: Bats makes the ‘he’s crazy’ sign to the cops about Baby. The
text: cops get a call. Switch their SIREN ON. Pull out of the jam and
text: out of sight. Everyone exhales. Heart attack over... For now.
dialog: 73
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: EXT. US POST OFFICE. WATTS - DAY 73
dialog: ‘Intermission’ by Blur.
text: A solo piano plays an endlessly descending melody.
text: Baby pulls up into the strip mall. The place is quiet but
text: everything feels bad. The heat, the traffic, the summer
text: aggression in the air, a rain drop on the windshield. In Watts?
text: There’s even a construction PICKUP TRUCK partly blocking their
text: exit, steel enforced concrete poles hanging off the back. Even
dialog: a novice would get spooked by this, but -
text: Bats ignores the omens and repeats his mantra.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: Remember, what’s in there is ours. It
dialog: belongs to us. They got our money.
dialog: They got our money orders. They got
dialog: our momma’s jewels. They got our
dialog: girlfriend in there. So let’s go in,
dialog: get them, get her. Take back what is
dialog: rightfully ours.
text: Darling opens her door. It starts. There’s a thunderclap.
text: A crunchy electric guitar joins the piano. Adds menace.
text: Buddy and Bats watch Darling walk into the post office alone.
text: Baby gets a pervasive feeling of dread. A baby in a stroller
text: cries. A chorus of honks and angry drivers are heard nearby.
text: A bass guitar joins the sneaking melody. Buddy and Bats get
text: out, take bags from the trunk and follow Darling. Baby is
text: distracted by an argument between two men at a bus stop.
text: A huge thunder clap and cymbal crash heralds the introduction
text: of drums. And also Buddy and Bats entering the post office.
text: The tempo of the track quickens. Traffic noise flares nearby.
text: Baby stares forward. Rain spots his windshield.
text: Baby hits the wipers. They are in perfect time with the track.
text: He stays, fixed forward, staring at the jagged mess of
text: protruding poles, fixating on this premonition of doom.
text: Tempo quickens. Rain thickens. Baby flicks the wipers up a
text: notch in speed. In his wing mirror, Baby sees -
text: A SECURITY GUARD ambling around the corner. Looks up at the
text: uncommon rainfall. Finishes off a sandwich.
dialog: 85.
text: A squeal of feedback. Baby looks through the post office door.
text: He can see frantic activity inside.
text: He looks back to the security guard who has thrown the sandwich
text: wrapper in the trash and now slowly approaches Baby.
text: The tempo quickens. The drums become more manic. Baby flicks
text: the wipers to go one faster. Matching the tempo. The security
text: guard passes, eyeballing Baby. Then -
text: A GUN SHOT. From inside. Baby and the Guard look to the door.
dialog: Baby doesn’t want to think what just happened in there. The
text: Guard runs to the door of the post office. Just as -
text: Buddy, Darling and Bats run out, bags and guns in hand.
text: Hard cymbals strike. White noise guitar. Madly fast piano.
text: The Security Guard reaches for a walkie.
text: BATS BLOWS HIM AWAY WITH A SHOTGUN. POINT BLANK.
text: Baby witnesses this. Close up. He is in total shock.
text: BATS THEN SHOOTS THE SECURITY GUARD ON THE GROUND TOO.
text: Sound EXPLODES around them. AN ALARM. SCREAMS from passersby.
text: The sound of distant SIRENS as -
text: Darling and Buddy leap in the back and Bats jumps in shotgun.
text: A huge shift up in tempo, the track threatening to collapse.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Move!
text: Baby doesn’t move.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Fucking move!
dialog: Baby doesn't go.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: Fucking hit the gas you fucking
dialog: retard. Fucking move. Go!
text: Bats HITS Baby in the face with the shotgun stock. It knocks
text: out a lens from his sunglasses. We now see one naked eye.
text: One steely eye. Baby doesn’t move. Baby doesn’t go.
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Baby go! Go now!
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: I'm blowing your fucking head off in
dialog: three seconds if you don’t move!
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Move!
text: Bats POINTS the barrel of his shotgun at Baby’s head.
speaker_heading: BATS
dialog: 1-
text: Sirens mass. Baby holds still. That steely eye staring at Bats.
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: 2-
text: Music and noise crescendos around them. And then -
speaker_heading: BATS (CONT'D)
dialog: 3!
text: Baby HITS the gas. Drives hard and fast. Straight into -
text: The back of the Pickup Truck. The concrete poles.
text: WRECKING THE PASSENGER SIDE OF THE CAR AND IMPALING BATS.
text: A blast of violent noise. Wailing distorted feedback.
text: BATS IS DEAD. The car is FUCKED. The sirens get CLOSER.
text: Baby, Darling and Buddy are alive, but badly concussed.
text: Concrete dust and radiator mist cloud the trashed Galant.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Get up. Get up. Get up.
text: Buddy pulls Darling out of the car. Baby gets out too. He has
text: one earbud hanging out of his ear, one sunglass lens missing.
text: The song whites out. Returns to a simple solo piano. Buddy
text: looks at Baby. He is incandescent with rage.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT’D)
dialog: What did you do? WHAT DID YOU DO!
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I moved.
dialog: 74
dialog: 87.
text: Buddy FLIPS. Grabs Baby. Looks ready to shoot him there and
text: then. Baby’s ear bud falls out. When -
text: POP! POP! POP! A COP is positioned on the street. Shooting over
text: the hood of the first Black & White to arrive.
text: BUDDY RETURNS FIRE from behind his car door. Darling too. Baby
text: ducks down behind the wreck of the Galant. He does not know
text: what to do and looks again to his music for direction.
text: He puts his left earbud back in as a new track kicks off -
dialog: ‘Hocus Pocus’ by Focus.
text: A heavy guitar riff plays in left channel. Baby puts in his
text: right earbud. A second guitar joins in the right channel.
text: Police cars screech into view all around. Officers screaming
text: with fury at them to lay down their arms.
text: The track builds. Baby stands. The track kicks in.
dialog: Baby. Buddy. Darling. Run for it. Race to survive.
text: Driving guitars, bass and drums propel Baby forward. Buddy
text: fires back. Darling loses her heels, runs barefoot.
scene_heading: EXT. THE STREETS OF WATTS - CONTINUOUS 74
text: The three of them disappear out of the back of the strip mall.
text: Ducking into to a back alley. The sound of police boots and
text: screeching tires gaining on them.
text: They pound along the alley. Baby is first, looking crazy with
text: his single lens sunglasses. He vaults over a chain link fence
text: and runs fast, leaving Darling and Buddy behind.
text: He sails across a street, cars screeching around him. Heads for
text: a memorial park up ahead. Feet pounding.
text: Guitars build. Baby runs fast and is out of control. He slams
text: into a middle aged male DOG WALKER on a snare hit.
text: Drum solo. Baby hides in a clump of trees. Stops. Catches his
text: breath. His organs feel like they are in his mouth.
text: Vocal section. Crazy yodelling. Hammond Organ. Baby looks
text: around. Sees the police chasing Buddy and Darling on foot.
text: Black & Whites splitting every which way. Circling the park.
dialog: 75
dialog: 76
dialog: 88.
text: The vocalist begins a rising scream. Baby gears up. Knows he
text: cannot stop. Police are coming. Chopper blades are closing in.
text: The dog walker is waving in the direction of the trees.
text: Drum fill into driving heavy guitar. Baby makes a break. Heads
text: back into the sun. Cops are suddenly on his heels. One Black &
text: White driving onto the park itself.
text: Baby runs. Cops won’t shoot. There are too many people in the
text: park. Kids scream. Mothers yell. Hobos are tripped over.
text: Hectic drum fills and snares build. Baby hotfoots it across a
text: crosswalk, weaving through shoppers as he heads for a -
scene_heading: INT./EXT. RUNDOWN MALL - CONTINUOUS 75
text: Baby slides down banisters into the sunken ground level of a
text: busy-ish shopping mall that has seen better days.
text: Another crazed drum solo signals his fast descent down the
text: stairs and mad dash right into a customer elevator going up.
text: More crazy yodelling scores his ascent to a higher level. Baby
text: catches his breath in an elevator full of women. Baby looks out
text: of place, panting and sweat drenched. He takes off his cyclops
text: sunglasses to look less odd. It doesn’t work.
text: As the vocal rises, Baby can see the Cops sweeping the food
text: court. At the peak, one cop sees Baby in the elevator. The lift
text: doors open. Baby is out of there.
text: A frenzied guitar solo sees Baby tear around the top floor. He
text: can see cops running up escalators to find him. He tries to
text: fast walk, so as not to look conspicuous. He darts into a -
scene_heading: INT. DISCOUNT CLOTHING STORE - CONTINUOUS 76
text: Baby takes out his ears. Grabs a baseball cap and disappears
text: into aisles stacked with clothes. The track plays faintly in
text: his loose earphones and mixes with the store muzak. Baby tries
text: on a denim jacket. Picks up new shades. Sees -
text: Cops reflected in the convex mirror, high up on the wall.
text: Baby avoids them and walks straight back out. The tags on his
text: stolen clothing set off the store alarms. The cops turn to see -
text: Baby has gone. He has disappeared into a nearby -—
dialog: 77
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 89.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRONICS STORE - CONTINUOUS 77
text: Baby crouches down on the floor of a low rent Best Buy style
text: store. He pretends to inspect a particular stereo system.
text: One ear bud is back in and the track’s crazy oompah breakdown
text: mixes with the disorienting noise of many plasma screens.
text: Outside Baby sees the cops run past the store. Their path takes
text: his easily distracted eye to a display of televisions.
text: Playing on the screens is a scene from ‘Top Hat’ where FRED
text: ASTAIRE tap dances and mimes the massacre of the chorus with
text: his cane a substitute for a submachine gun.
text: All danger briefly fades as Astaire dancing syncs up with
text: Baby’s music. The TVs are placed next to mirrored pillars.
text: Creating a kaleidoscopic effect that mesmerizes...
text: It's fleeting. The cops are back. Breakdown is over.
text: The huge guitar riff returns and Baby runs through the store,
text: heading not for the exit, but for the staff room. He busts
text: through their stock room and past yelling employees to find -
scene_heading: INT. FIRE EXIT STAIRS - CONTINUOUS 78
text: Baby busts down the stairs. TRIPS ALARMS. Up above the cops
text: burst into the stairwell. Baby sees them. But doesn’t see -
text: The cop who enters the stairwell at a lower level. FUCK.
text: Baby hits him at full speed. Knocks them both flying. The cop
text: slams hard into the door he just opened. Baby tumbles down the
text: next set of stairs. He recovers with a limp. Escapes to -
scene_heading: EXT. RUNDOWN MALL PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS 79
text: Baby races into the full lot, shaking off his new injury.
text: He zeroes in on models of cars from the pre-immobilizer era.
text: Spots a 91 Accord, a 95 Civic, a 2003 Corolla.
text: As the cops burst into the parking lot, Baby disappears down
text: amongst the parked cars, out of their view.
text: While on the ground, he tries the doors of the nearest
text: vehicles. Then, right in front on him.
text: Cops. Run past on foot. Missing him.
dialog: 90.
text: Baby stands up and on the rising guitar chords, smashes at the
text: window of the nearest white Corolla with his elbow.
text: CRASH. Baby messily smashes the window. He opens the door and
text: sits in the glass as a hectic drum solo plays.
text: He tries to hot wire it. But the engine won’t kick over.
text: He slumps down in his seat. Cops are running back and forth.
text: The rising vocal section builds. Hits a peak.
text: The engine fires up and Baby LURCHES forward. His seat belt
text: alarm chimes as he pulls a tight 90 degree turn. Cops spot him.
text: Some fire. Sending other shoppers screaming.
text: Baby roars forward in the Corolla, clipping trolleys and non-
text: compacts as he goes. His wheels SCREAM as he settles into the
text: new car and turns perfect corners to get out of this maze.
text: As two guitars rapidly solo, Baby leaves the cops behind,
dialog: snaking through the lot when -
text: BOOM. He ploughs hard into a car that is reversing at speed.
text: It’s a grey Silverado with broken windows. In the front -
text: BUDDY AND DARLING. No fucking way.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: No fucking way!
text: Cops descending. Both Baby and Buddy try to get their cars
text: started again. Buddy’s ride is fucked. It’s not happening.
text: Buddy SCREAMS at Baby. The veins in his neck bulging.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you a fucking jinx, you maggot?
text: The crazy vocals rise again. Sirens are getting close. Buddy
text: and Darling jump out of their car. Move toward Baby's.
speaker_heading: DARLING
dialog: Get us out of here Baby! This is your
dialog: fucking mess.
text: An LAPD bullhorn barks for them to put down their -—
text: BRAT BRAT BRAT. Darling lets rip in the bullhorn’s direction.
text: Buddy is about to fire too, when return fire EXPLODES from
text: three cops using nearby parked cars as a blockade.
text: Buddy ducks, but DARLING IS HIT. And HIT. And HIT. And HIT.
dialog: gl.
text: Baby is still in the car and can see two things.
text: 1) DARLING’S BODY RIDDLED WITH BULLETS AND JERKING WILDLY.
scene_heading: 2) BUDDY’S FACE TURNING EXPRESSIONLESS, EYES SEEING RED.
text: The bullets stop. Darling drops DEAD. The bullhorn resumes -
speaker_heading: L.A.P.D
dialog: Put your guns dow -
text: Nope. Buddy strides around the car and walks directly TOWARDS
text: the cops, firing all the way. He is a man possessed.
text: He wastes the police who are in the way. Fearlessly walking
text: toward the cops, shooting with fire in his eyes.
text: Three cops are WASTED in Buddy’s vengeance. He then shoots the
text: officer with the bullhorn who is back by a squad car.
text: What few pedestrians are still in the lot are crying and
text: shrieking. Massed sirens. More cops coming and fast.
text: The insane pounding guitars still ring in Baby’s ears. He stays
text: in the driving seat, waiting for Buddy’s next move.
text: He watches as Buddy calmly walks toward him, fixes him with
text: dead eyes, RAISES HIS GUN AND OPENS FIRE.
text: Baby slips down in his seat. Pops into reverse blindly. His car
text: barrels backwards, as Buddy unloads bullets.
text: A final drum solo plays as his Corolla slams into some parked
text: cars and he rolls out on to the tarmac.
text: His sunglasses and iPod scatter on the floor as he crawls in
text: between some parked cars.
text: Buddy approaches, barking madly in between each shot.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: You-should-have-never-picked-up!
text: Baby needs the iPod desperately, but cannot reach it without
text: exposing himself to Buddy’s hail of bullets, so -
text: Baby grabs the revolver of a downed officer. RETURNS FIRE.
text: Buddy dodges behind Baby’s crashed car, genuinely not expecting
text: fire from Baby. But he’s not surprised to see -
text: BABY’S HAND. Reaching out. Trying to grab the dropped iPod.
dialog: 80
dialog: 92.
text: Buddy unleashes lead and BLOWS THE iPOD TO SMITHEREENS.
dialog: End of Song. Then-
text: Baby RUNS for it, zig zagging through the parked cars. His only
text: rhythm now: the sound of police sirens WOOP WOOPING.
text: He runs, turns corners, sprints frantically, trying to escape
text: the parking lot and get far away from Buddy and the cops.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK ON THE STREETS OF WATTS - CONTINUOUS 80
text: We stay with Baby as he sprints through back alleys. The sirens
text: and firing sounds fall away and the sound of blood in Baby's
text: eardrums gets louder and louder.
text: Baby swaps his gun between hands and presses on his neck,
text: taking his pulse. It beats fast. He runs fast. Very fast.
text: Baby closes his eyes and lets his pulse guide him as he runs.
text: The sirens fall away, the commotion behind him now. We stay with
text: him running, his blood racing, his pulse quick.
text: Then slows on the corner of a quieter neighborhood street.
text: He sees an OLDER LADY slowly driving a Purple Pontiac Grand Am
text: Coupe. She appears to be listening to a religious radio station.
text: Desperate, Baby runs up to her, gun underneath his jacket and in
dialog: a voice like we’ve never heard from him -
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Get the fuck out of the car lady!
text: Baby channels the (now deceased) Bats. The Older Lady freaks.
text: She gets the fuck out and we FOLLOW HER as she runs across the
text: street and over the low wall of a nearby lot.
text: She decides to stay low on the ground, hide. Then as her
text: breathing calms, she hears something curious -
text: THE SOUND OF SWITCHING STATIONS... Her car appears to still be
text: idling. She hasn’t heard it leave. But she does hear -
text: A ballad. A dry news report. A country ballad. Traditional
text: Mexican music. Another ballad. Another ballad. A slow soul
text: track. A commercial. Another ballad...
text: The Lady looks over the wall and sees Baby still in the Pontiac,
text: trying to find the correct song on the radio to drive off.
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
dialog: 83
dialog: 93.
text: She looks at him dumbstruck. He looks at the car stereo, fully
text: concentrating on his search for tempo.
text: The final insult is Laurie Anderson’s ‘Oh Superman’. As this
text: super slow avant garde piece plays, Baby looks up and meets
text: eyes with the Lady for a second. Then he says-
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m so sorry.
text: ‘Radar Love’ by Golden Earring comes onto the radio. Baby turns
text: the volume WAY UP, pops it into drive and peels out fast.
scene_heading: GOLDEN EARRING
dialog: “We've got a thing that's called a
dialog: radar love!"
text: The Lady watches him go. What the -
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT - LATER 81
text: The Elderly Man asleep in front of the TV news. On it: live
text: helicopter footage of Buddy carjacking a Red Durango as he
text: battles police in the streets.
text: The window is open and we can hear ‘Radar Love’ playing even
text: before we see a car pulling up. (It’s a long song).
scene_heading: INT./EXT. APARTMENT BLOCK - CONTINUOUS 82
text: Baby parks the Pontiac, but doesn’t want to switch off the
text: radio. He looks up. Sees the window is open upstairs.
text: Baby leaves the engine running and the radio playing as he runs
text: into this apartment block. He leaves the main door open so the
text: music can echo around the stairwell.
text: The elevator is not on the ground and is slowly ascending so he
text: runs up the stairs two at a time and bursts into the -
scene_heading: INT. BARE APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS 83
text: Baby wakes the Elderly Man. On the TV is live coverage of Buddy
text: making his escape from the police in the Red Durango. Baby
text: communicates quickly in sign language. No subtitles.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: We_have to go. Bad.
text: Before Baby can explain, ‘Radar Love’ STOPS PLAYING outside.
dialog: 94.
text: Baby looks out. A red bullet riddled Durango is parked next to
text: his car. The doors are wide open and fuck -
text: Baby grabs a vinyl record, a battered copy of ‘Motown
text: Chartbusters Vol 3’. He puts it on to the stereo and places the
text: needle on the track he needs: ‘Edwin Starr’s 8.0.8’.
text: He then wheels the Elderly Man into the center of the room. He
text: rips out the floorboard and stuffs as many dollars into the
text: Elderly Man’s gown and blanket as possible.
text: He puts the rest of the money in a duffel. Grabs his address
text: book, but does not see A LOOSE PAGE flutter to the floor.
text: He grabs a dictaphone. Another portable recorder. Medication. A
text: stack of D90s. He’s about to grab some iPods, when -
text: SMASH. The window by the fire escape is being KICKED IN.
text: Baby leaves all his iPods behind. He wheels the Elderly Man’s
text: chair around, pushes him fast through the front door.
speaker_heading: EDWIN STARR
dialog: ‘I'm sending out an SOS, because I am
dialog: so much distress’
text: Hot on their tail. BUDDY. He climbs through the broken window
text: to the empty apartment where Edwin Starr still blares. He sees
text: the loose page of the address book on the floor. It reads -
scene_heading: Doc - 3108045898
dialog: Debora - ?
text: Buddy grabs the paper, runs to the front door and sees that the
text: elevator is descending...
speaker_heading: EDWIN STARR (CONT'D)
dialog: “If you see my baby, if you see my
dialog: baby, stop her on sight"
text: Buddy runs down the stairs to intercept the elevator. He hits
text: the ground first and waits for the doors to open.
text: Inside is the Elderly Man. Looking frail, innocent. Buddy looks
text: like he is about to grab the handicapped man when -
text: SIRENS are heard, helicopters, bullhorns, boots stomping.
text: Buddy looks up the stairwell. Sees Baby. Looking back down.
text: Buddy glares. His face white with fury. Before he can chase -—
dialog: 84
dialog: 95.
text: POLICE BUST THROUGH THE DOOR - Buddy turns and fires. Baby
text: doesn’t stick around to find out what happens next.
text: He runs back into the apartment. The phone still ringing. Grabs
text: a single iPod before jumping out onto the fire escape.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BLOCK - CONTINUOUS 84
text: And heads down. Behind him gunfire, massed sirens, ‘copters.
text: Baby puts his ear phones in. Spins the wheel on this (older)
text: iPod. Gets half way down the escape, jumps to the next roof-
text: Hides behind a stairwell exit on the next roof and finds a
text: track on his iPod that has the right urgency. He plays-
text: ‘Middle’ by Rocket From The Crypt.
dialog: ROCKET FROM THE CRYPT
dialog: “Are you stuck in the middle? Way-oh
dialog: way-oh!"
text: Baby looks to the fire escape. Hears gun fire from inside.
text: Baby looks up. A police helicopter is above and hovering.
text: Baby looks at entrance of his building. Cops swarm in.
text: Baby looks down to the street. The Elderly Man wheels along.
text: Baby looks further down. Sees a Sentra in a handicapped spot.
text: The song kicks into gear. He hears a CLANK behind him.
text: Buddy is atop the fire escape. Aiming his gun right at him.
text: Baby bolts. Runs fast across the roof. The copter sees him
text: sprinting and bellows with a loud hailer. Shots are fired.
dialog: Baby jumps -
text: Lands in a dumpster, he emerges with a rock in hand and sprints
text: for the Sentra. He throws the rock at the window and dives into
text: the car. Boosts it. Hits reverse fast and heads back up the
text: street to pick up his uncle.
text: DING DING DING. As the car reverses, Baby keeps his head down
text: and watches the BACK UP CAMERA. Cops have run right past the
text: Elderly Man who is wheeling slowly down the street.
text: Baby stops and gets out. Leaving the car DINGing in reverse.
dialog: 85
dialog: 86
dialog: 96.
text: He runs over and grabs the Elderly Man out of the chair.
text: Throwing him over his shoulder, Baby runs to put him in the
text: passenger seat of the newly stolen vehicle.
text: One cop turns back to see an empty wheelchair rolling down the
text: street unmanned. He looks over to the car and sees -
text: Baby. In the Sentra. Pulling a sharp 180 that swerves on the
text: sidewalk. Before the cop has time to call his colleagues-—
text: Baby is in drive. Flooring it.
scene_heading: INT. SENTRA - CONTINUOUS 85
text: Baby looks in the rear view. Leaving the cops and Buddy behind
text: him. He looks to the Elderly Man. Signs.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: We're good.
scene_heading: EXT. RETIREMENT HOME - EVENING 86
text: Baby pulls up outside a sign reading ‘Holiday Villa’. A well
text: lit path through verdant gardens leads to the entrance.
text: The Elderly Man is asleep in shotgun. Baby looks at him sadly.
text: He takes the Dictaphone and records the following.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Hello. My name is Joseph. I like
dialog: watching TV and sometimes I like to
dialog: listen to old records through the
dialog: vibrations. I also like frozen peas,
dialog: meatloaf and white bread and peanut
dialog: butter. And bananas. Please look after
dialog: me. Thank you.
text: Baby puts the Dictaphone in Joseph's lap. He is now awake and
text: smiling back at Baby. It’s bittersweet.
text: Baby bottles his guilt. Runs up the path. The ‘open door’ chime
text: pings in his wake. Joseph is not sure if Baby has gone.
text: But Baby returns. Standing outside the car with another
text: wheelchair he has seemingly stolen from the home.
text: Joseph signs to Baby. And for once, subtitles.
speaker_heading: JOSEPH
dialog: Where are you going?
dialog: 87
dialog: 88
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Away.
text: Baby wheels Joseph down the path to the entrance.
speaker_heading: JOSEPH
dialog: Will you come back?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I don’t know. I want you to be safe.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JOSEPH
dialog: Are you in trouble?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I_don’t want to be in trouble anymore.
dialog: 
text: The sound of CHOPPER BLADES. Baby and Joseph look up as a
text: police searchlight illuminates the Sentra in the driveway.
text: The spotlight then illuminates Joseph alone in his wheelchair.
dialog: No Baby.
scene_heading: EXT. THE SUBURBS - EVENING 87
text: Hi hat drums. Baby walks the dark streets. Past parked cars.
text: A kik drum hits. Baby stops. A cop car cruises through a cross
text: street up ahead.
text: A discordant violin drone. The police helicopter is still up
text: above. Getting closer.
text: Heavy breaths. A bass guitar joins the kik hits. A young female
text: dog walker strolls in the opposite direction.
text: Violins climb. Baby tries every car door he passes. The cop car
text: slows, shining a torch at him. The searchlight comes close. The
text: dog walker gives Baby a long double take. When -
text: One car door is unlocked. Baby opens it. Slips in. Boosts it. A
dialog: downwards piano glissando takes us to -
scene_heading: EXT. HALF EMPTY DINER - NIGHT 88
dialog: ‘Never Never Gonna Give You Up’ by Barry White.
text: The welcoming neon lights of the diner reflect on Baby’s
text: windshield as he pulls up to the shuffling groove.
dialog: 89
dialog: 98.
text: As Barry sings ‘ooh baby', our Baby looks determined as he
text: parks up right outside the doors of the diner.
text: Harpischords and high strings score his immediate view. Debora.
text: Behind the counter. Looking unhappy.
text: Baby’s heart beats with the electric bass on the track. As
text: Barry breathes, Baby takes deep breaths. Whispers to himself -
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Go in and get her. Go in. Get her.
scene_heading: INT. HALF EMPTY DINER - NIGHT 89
text: Baby walks in. Takes his shades off. Leaves his earphones in.
text: Debora sees him. Looks surprised to see him.
speaker_heading: BARRY WHITE
dialog: Wherever wherever girl, I'll do it.
dialog: Forever and ever, yeah yeah yeah yeah,
dialog: I'll see you through it.
text: Once again, Debora is framed beautifully amongst the wall art
text: of couples in convertibles, auto dreams of romantic escape.
text: Baby smiles. Debora doesn’t match it. She looks worried. And
text: unsure of him. Then Baby sees on the counter in front of her.
text: A half drunk coffee. A torn napkin. The missing page from his
text: address book. With Doc's number and Debora's name on it.
text: Debora looks at Baby with fresh eyes. Like she doesn’t know him
text: at all. And she looks scared. She says quietly.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Your buddy is here...
text: She looks to the rest room. Baby follows her gaze.
text: BUDDY stands outside the rest room door. His eyes are black. He
text: seems like he’s in monochrome, grief and rage making him a
text: scary shell of his former self.
text: Aside from the three of them, the diner is empty. With Barry
text: White still playing, this quiet stand off feels operatic.
text: A flute flourish. Baby and Buddy stand still. No one makes a
text: move. Buddy stares right through his former colleague.
text: Debora, breathing fast. Looks between them, then to the TV.
dialog: 99.
text: On the wall mounted TV, THE NEWS. There’s photos and full names
text: for Bats (Leo Brubaker III) and Darling (Monica Rosen).
text: For Buddy, a photo, a full name and an angle (James Patrick
dialog: Morgan: ‘Former Wall Street Trader Wanted For Cop Killings’).
text: Baby only has a sketchy artist’s rendering of his face.
text: Buddy and Baby fixate on the news coverage, when -
text: RED AND BLUE LIGHTS reflect on the diner windows. COP CARS
text: CIRCLE. One cruises in. Parks right next to Baby’s car.
text: Buddy calmly walks back to his spot at the counter. Baby slowly
text: joins him. They sit on stools next to each other.
text: Outside. One cop stays by the car on the radio, the other
text: officer moves slowly towards the diner doors. Buddy shows
text: Debora his gun over the counter and nods to her.
text: She nods back and pours Buddy some more coffee. As Debora
text: pours, Baby makes eye contact with her as Barry sings.
speaker_heading: BARRY WHITE
dialog: “Cause I found what the world is
dialog: searching for. Here, right here my
dialog: dear, I don't have to look no more."
text: Baby looks emotional. Debora can tell that he is upset. Baby
text: picks up a pen and a suggestion slip, writes something in his
text: childish scrawl. She tries to read it upside down when -
text: THE COP walks in. Doesn’t see the TV, waves to Debora, heads
text: for the mens’. The song strings build to a chorus where -
text: Buddy takes one of Baby's earphones and listens in too -
speaker_heading: BARRY WHITE (CONT'D)
dialog: “Never, never gonna give you up. I'm
dialog: never ever gonna stop.”
text: Buddy fixes Baby with intent, a seething fury. This is not
dialog: about the girl anymore. This is about settling a score.
speaker_heading: BARRY WHITE (CONT'D)
dialog: “I'm never ever gonna quit. Cause
dialog: quittin' just ain't my schtick."
text: In the middle of this pop standoff, Debora breathes fast.
speaker_heading: BARRY WHITE (CONT'D)
dialog: “Gonna stay right here with you-”
dialog: 90
dialog: 100.
text: THE SONG STOPS. Baby sees that the iPod reads ‘Error 1407’.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: It’s dead, Baby.
text: The door to the rest rooms opens. All three turn to see -
text: The OTHER WAITRESS comes out. Clearly starting her shift. She
text: yawns. Doesn’t clock that anything is wrong.
scene_heading: OTHER WAITRESS
dialog: How you two doin’?
text: On Buddy. “Two?” He swivels on his stool. Baby is gone.
text: So is the piece of paper with Doc’s number. Debora sees the
dialog: suggestion slip left behind. On it -
speaker_heading: “SORRY”
text: Buddy bolts after him into the parking lot. He can’t see Baby
text: or his car. The Pacific Ghost is gone.
text: The cop, still on his radio, looks up as Buddy screams out.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: You can’t keep on running, Baby!
text: The cop wonders who this crazy man yelling is -
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Sir?
text: Buddy calmly turns to him, raises his pistol. BLAM.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CALLBOX/ PARK - NIGHT 90
speaker_heading: “3108045898”
text: Baby punches the number into a call box phone. He’s in the park
text: near his old apartment block. That area is cordoned and
text: swarming with cops. As the phone rings he looks at his
text: immediate environment. It’s populated by the homeless and kids
text: looking to get high. The summer air thick with noise.
text: Snatches of unfamiliar music. Car alarms. Partying. The still
text: omnipresent sound of nearby chopper blades.
text: Baby wants out. The phone picks up at the other end.
speaker_heading: Doc (0.S.)
dialog: I ain’t open.
dialog: 91
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: It’s Baby.
speaker_heading: Doc (0.S.)
dialog: I know. I ain’t open.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I need your help.
speaker_heading: Doc (0.S.)
dialog: You had my help.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I can give some of the money back. I
dialog: don’t want it.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. PHONE BOX/DOC’S - NIGHT
text: Doc laughs, incredulous. He shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It don’t work like that. You got
dialog: another debt now. One you can’t pay
dialog: off. You think the cops are gonna take
dialog: a check? Think that Buddy has a figure
dialog: in mind that can replace Darling? None
dialog: of this is going to go away because
dialog: you don’t wanna play anymore. Whether
dialog: you pulled the trigger or not, cops
dialog: are dead. You are not going to get
dialog: cuffed, they are going to kill you.
dialog: Whether you shot her or not, someone’s
text: girl is dead. He is not going to
dialog: forget it.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Doc, you gotta understand-
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: And don’t give me any more lines from
dialog: ‘Monsters Inc’ kid. Yeah, I figured
dialog: that one out. It’s one of Samm’s
dialog: favorites. I thought it sounded
dialog: familiar, you little shit.
speaker_heading: BABY
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You there?
dialog: 101.
dialog: 91
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I’m scared Doc. I fucked up.
text: Doc softens. He’s alone in the warehouse. His jacket is on.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I know you did. I know you did.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Look, the cops are not going anywhere
dialog: and I don’t think it’s in you to take
text: Buddy’s wind, so the only good news is
dialog: you like driving. Because you're going
dialog: to have to hit the gas and not take
dialog: your foot off for 20 years.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Listen. I’m shutting up shop. And real
dialog: soon. Too much bad business. Not my
dialog: style. But I think I can help you. So
dialog: here's what we are going to do -
text: A noise off. Doc’s manner suddenly changes.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: You're going to go to the florist’s
dialog: first thing tomorrow and you’re gonna
dialog: drop off the flowers to my mother. Big
dialog: arrangement, I don’t know all the names,
dialog: whatever you think looks good. Get them
dialog: to her before ten. She’s gotta go out.
text: What? Baby is confused on his end of the phone.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: Card should read ‘Congratulations on
dialog: this special day. All my love, your
dialog: favorite son, Harry’.
text: On Doc’s end we see, out of focus, behind. BUDDY.
speaker_heading: DOC (CONT'D)
dialog: Any problems. You got my number.
text: Doc hangs up. Senses someone behind him. Plays it cool. Turns
text: to see the ashen faced, dangerous Buddy.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Where is he?
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Who? Baby?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Don’t fuck around Doc. Where is he?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You think I know where he is? He could
dialog: be anywhere.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: He could be. But’s he not. The kid
dialog: ain’t that bright. I don’t think he
dialog: knows where to go apart from his
dialog: place, that diner or here.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You saw him last, not me.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: You put him on our score Doc. Him and
dialog: that ticking timebomb Bats. I took your
dialog: fucking word for them. Darling took your
dialog: fucking word for them. Your
dialog: recommendation. So I am going to
dialog: recommend you tell me where Baby is,
dialog: because whether it’s your fucking
dialog: mother’s birthday or not, I don’t think
dialog: you want to see her cry tomorrow.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (calm, strong)
dialog: I know that you’re hurting. And I know
dialog: that you want to kill Baby. Maybe you
dialog: think killing him will fill that hole
dialog: inside you. That you can mend your
dialog: bleeding heart by stopping his. And you
dialog: want me to help you do it. But I ain’t
dialog: going to do that Buddy. Because I am not
dialog: your doctor... Even though my name is Doc.
text: Buddy looks at him, unblinking.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: So that’s that.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Yeah. That’s that.
dialog: 104.
scene_heading: 92 EXT. PARK - NIGHT 92
text: Baby sits on a low wall, deciphering that last phone call. He
text: has a portable cassette player and rewinds Doc’s command.
speaker_heading: DOC (ON TAPE)
dialog: You're going to go to the florist's
dialog: first thing tomorrow and you're gonna
dialog: drop off the flowers to my mother.
dialog: (rewind)
dialog: You're going to go to the florist's
dialog: first thing tomorrow.
dialog: (rewind)
dialog: You're going to go to the florist's-
text: Baby stops the tape. It makes no sense to him. He looks around
text: him. The world feels so alien without music.
text: He sees the auto reverse button. He pushes it. The tape flips.
text: He hears from way earlier.
scene_heading: NICE LADY TELLER (ON TAPE)
dialog: It would be nice to get away. With all
dialog: this heat.
text: VEEP. Baby rewinds it. Listens again. Suddenly it becomes clear.
text: Baby looks at the money, the gun, the bag. And suddenly hears -
dialog: ‘Theme From Shaft’ by Isaac Hayes.
text: It’s in his head telling him to get up and get out.
text: Baby looks determined. He then realizes that it’s not in his
text: head. Nor is it Isaac Hayes. He looks up to see —
text: A red tricked out 2012 Ford Mustang V6 Premium driven by Black
text: GANGBANGERS pulls up near Baby.
text: They listen to the Shaft sampling- ‘Know How’ by Young MC.
dialog: One would not normally fuck with these guys, but the music moves
dialog: Baby to stand up, walk over and order them to -
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Get out.
text: The young Gangbangers look up. Laugh at this white kid.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT'D)
text: Get out of the car.
text: They look at his hands. One is firmly in his jacket pocket.
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: GANG 1
dialog: Better be good with that gun homey.
text: Baby pulls out the gun from his pocket. Shows it.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I am.
speaker_heading: GANG 2
dialog: Might be the last car you steal.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Don’t wanna steal it. I wanna buy it.
dialog: 'Y
text: More of them laugh at this. Baby points the gun firmly.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m serious. Sell me your car.
text: Uh okay. The laughter is more muted as Baby forces them out at
text: gunpoint. They slowly leave the Mustang, hands aloft.
text: As Baby gets to the driver’s door, he tosses a huge stack of
text: bills to the original owner. His friend wows at the amount.
speaker_heading: GANG 2
dialog: This some crazy ass shit.
text: Baby goes to reverse out when the driver shouts -—
speaker_heading: GANG 1
dialog: Yo yo. Can I get my iPhone?
text: The driver reaches inside. Baby points the gun at him.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: No.
text: Baby reverses out of there as YOUNG MC steps up to the mic.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MC
dialog: “Some of the busiest rhymes ever made
dialog: by man, Are goin' into this mic,
dialog: written by this hand, Are comin' out
dialog: of this mouth, made by this tongue,
dialog: I'll tell you now my name, my name is
dialog: Young - “
dialog: MONTAGE: ‘Know How’ by Young MC
text: - See Baby driving down LA STREETS, powered by the music.
text: - See Baby pull into a RECORD STORE.
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 95
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
dialog: 106.
dialog: - See him stride as if his life depends on it. It kinda does.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MC (CONT'D)
text: “Pullin' out rhymes like books off the
dialog: shelf - “
text: - Baby walks right up to the ‘Q’ section. Takes Queen's ‘Sheer
text: Heart Attack’ off the rack.
text: Then sees Quincy Jones' ‘Big Band Bossa Nova’. He swipes both.
text: Pays with a crisp 100 dollar bill.
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN STREETS - NIGHT 93
text: Baby drives through the eerily dead business sector.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING P3 - NIGHT 94
text: Baby parking the Mustang in his usual spot. The parking lot is
text: mostly empty. Save a couple of cars.
text: ‘Know How’ scores Baby's swagger to the elevator. He has shades
text: on, ears in and he’s ready for whatever is next —
scene_heading: INT. UNDECORATED LOFT - NIGHT 95
text: The warehouse door is open. Baby walks in. He sees-
text: DOC IS DEAD. Shirt soaked in blood. Lying in an ignominious,
text: ungraceful heap on the floor.
text: Baby stops the music and stares. We hear the hum of his
text: tinnitus. He also sees the chalkboard. It has been wiped blank.
scene_heading: INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR - NIGHT 96
text: Baby descends in the elevator. He is slumped against the side.
text: His body language meek. He is all alone. But not for long-
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING P3 - NIGHT 97
text: PING. Outside the elevator, between him and his car are -—
speaker_heading: THREE FARMERS?
text: No longer ghosts. Suddenly very alive. Baby cannot process that
dialog: these men are far from dead. Is he dreaming?
dialog: 107.
text: They are bruised, tired and phenomenally pissed. The thick
text: necked gorilla that is Armie walks toward Baby.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: Hey little pig!
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Are you ghosts?
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: It’s called Kevlar. Look it up.
text: Armie faces Baby, breathing very hard right in his face.
speaker_heading: ARMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: What you listening to?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Nothing.
text: Armie slaps Baby very hard in the ear. Knocking one earbud out.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: Good. Because I want you to listen
dialog: very carefully to me -
text: Baby can now hear something faintly in the background. A
text: fairground organ. Is he dreaming?
speaker_heading: ARMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Where are your friends?
text: Baby is slightly distracted by the faint fairground ambience in
text: the background. He knows this song.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: They are not my friends. But two are
dialog: dead. The other. I don’t know.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: Well you better rack your brains,
text: before we stomp on them.
text: Baby hears a chugging electric guitar. He knows this song. So do
text: we. It’s ‘Brighton Rock’ by Queen and it’s playing right now.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I didn’t shoot at you.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
dialog: You stood by while the blood of our
dialog: colleagues was spilt. That’s red ink
dialog: for you my friend.
dialog: 108.
text: Baby glances to the side. There’s a Dodge Charger nearby. Engine
text: running. Stereo on. Playing ‘Brighton Rock’.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I didn’t want them to get hurt.
speaker_heading: ARMIE
text: This is falling on deaf ears. Just
dialog: tell us where your colleague is.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I think that’s him. Right there.
text: Baby points to the Charger. Armie and the Butchers turn. We see -
text: Buddy. In the Charger. Turning ‘Brighton Rock’ way up.
text: And on a drum fill, he hits the gas. HARD.
text: Charges the Farmers. Listening to Queen.
text: They reach for their weapons, get off some shots before -
text: CRUNCH. Buddy mows down two of the three Farmers.
dialog: 
text: KILLS THEM DEAD. For real this time. Baby and Armie are left
text: standing and shocked.
text: Armie pops off a couple of shots at Buddy as he slams the
text: Charger in reverse and speeds backwards to line up with Armie,
text: Baby and the elevator. He looks insane at the wheel.
text: Armie grabs Baby and points his gun at the kid’s head.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT’D)
dialog: He wants me dead too.
text: Armie believes him. FUCK.
text: Buddy punches the gas and tears toward Baby and Armie.
text: Guitars descend into a bridge. Buddy ploughs into the wall. Baby
text: makes it into the freight elevator. Armie doesn’t.
text: He is pinned between Charger and wall. Baby cowers in the
text: elevator behind and looks over the throbbing hood to see Buddy
text: at the wheel. Grooving to Queen like a crazy man,
text: As snare drums accelerate into a second verse. Baby pulls out
text: his gun. Buddy slams into reverse again.
text: Baby fires at Buddy as he screams backwards. He hits the
dialog: windshield a couple of times, but then -
dialog: 109.
text: Baby’s out. And Buddy is back in drive. Charging at Baby. As
text: harmonized guitars wail, Buddy bears down on Baby.
text: But instead of retreating further back, he runs out of the
dialog: elevator and TOWARDS the Charger -
speaker_heading: FREDDIE MERCURY
dialog: It would be of no small avail to talk
text: of magic in the air.
text: Just as Buddy is about to CRASH INTO BABY and the wall behind,
text: the kid RUNS AND JUMPS ON TO THE HOOD OF THE CAR.
dialog: That’s some Jackie Chan shit right there.
dialog: 
text: Buddy CRUNCHES into the wall as Baby slips over the roof and
text: nimbly sprints in the other direction to his car.
text: Buddy can’t believe it. He reverses out as Baby makes it back
text: to his Mustang, jumping back in.
text: Buddy spins around. His car is now pretty gnarled up.
text: He looks to see Baby back in his Mustang. Back at the wheel.
text: Back in the driver’s seat. But -
text: Baby needs something important first. As he guns his engine, he
text: grabs the CD of Queen's ‘Sheer Heart Attack’. It is still
text: wrapped in plastic. He tries to tear it open with his teeth.
text: Buddy senses a pause and floors his fucked up Charger to ram
text: the Mustang in time with the driving Queen chords.
text: Baby is still trying to unwrap the damn CD with his teeth. He
text: guns the engine and slams into reverse. Hits the gas.
text: Buddy chases the reversing Baby across the parking lot. Baby
text: still unwrapping with one free hand, the other on the wheel.
text: Baby gets the cellophane off. But there’s still the annoying
text: plastic label sealing the case. Behind Baby -
text: A concrete pillar looms FAST in the back up camera. Baby snakes
text: the Mustang, missing the pillar.
text: On a huge G chord. Buddy hits the pillar. BOOM.
text: As Brian May flourishes, Baby spins the car 180 fast. He also
text: has the first plastic label off. He faces Buddy again.
text: Buddy slams back out from the pillar. Swerves to charge.
dialog: 110.
text: Baby starting picking off the other label and reverses again,
text: driving one handed to a crazy guitar solo. He snakes it once
text: more, leading Buddy directly into the Farmer’s SUV.
text: SLAM. As Buddy smashes into the SUV, Baby pulls another 180 on
text: the concrete, burning as Brian May melts his fretboard.
text: Baby now has the CD out and pops it into the player.
text: As Buddy unwraps his Charger from the SUV, Baby fast forwards
text: his copy of ‘Brighton Rock' so it is in sync with Buddy.
text: Buddy can see and hear Baby doing this and cannot believe it.
text: He’s trying to get his killer track playing at the same time.
text: Two hard bitten criminals with duelling cars and stereos.
text: Buddy pops backwards fast, but Baby, with one hand on his
text: stereo, slams into drive, gunning hard as guitars wail.
text: BOOM. Baby clips the Charger on the nose. Buddy is spun like a
text: bumper car. He comes to a stop. Strains to see Baby behind.
text: He pulls back to find Baby circling around him like a shark. As
text: Queen play elaborate drum fills, Buddy’s Charger dances with
text: the Mustang to get distance. The kid’s showing off.
text: Baby still fast forwards through ‘Brighton Rock’ on his stereo
text: as he pulls out of the circle and charges forward.
text: A whammy bar holds a growling low note. Baby pulling another
text: bootleggers turn so that he faces Buddy again. He’s now in sync
text: with his stereo and he has the hint of a cocky smile.
text: Two cars, two stereos, one track. The tempo shoots up. Buddy
text: floors it. Charges Baby. Baby doesn’t move at first but -
text: As hi hats kick up the pace, he suddenly reverses, screaming
text: out of P3 and up the winding slope of the access ramp.
dialog: Over pounding guitars, Baby reverses faster than you would
text: drive forwards. He doesn’t look up, uses only the back up
text: camera. Glances to see Buddy furiously trying to keep pace.
text: They circle around the winding ramp, screeching tires echo in
text: the structure and mix in with the ferocious guitars.
text: Past P2, Baby keeps ascending in reverse at crazy speeds.
text: Buddy struggles to keep up. Gunning his fucked up Charger.
text: Baby gets ahead of the curve, Buddy can no longer see him until
text: he explodes into Pl. There are more cars on this level.
dialog: Abandoned overnight.
dialog: 111.
text: Down the aisle, Baby’s Mustang executes another amazing
text: Rockford turn, spinning a tight 180 and facing forward.
text: Buddy guns it and chases, when on another whammy bar note -
text: WHAM! Baby’s Mustang goes right into the wall. Partially
text: smashes the barrier that separates from a steep drop to P2.
text: Buddy slows. WHAT THE FUCK? He pulls up to the crashed Mustang -
text: But Baby is not inside. The song is still playing. Then -
text: As chugging guitars return, we see a figure run past in the
dialog: background. Buddy catches it too. That. Fucking. Kid.
text: As the solo guitar chugs low and lower, Buddy reverses up,
text: looking between the parked cars to see if he can see Baby.
text: Shadows, glimpses. Amongst the playground of these abandoned
text: cars, Baby leads Buddy in a merry dance.
text: Buddy pulls out his gun. Looks around the moving shadows in the
text: parking lot, aims to see if Baby is hiding out -
text: On a wailing guitar, he swings his gun at -
text: A CHUBBY SECURITY GUARD, who is right in the line of fire,
text: drops his coffee and runs right back out of the parking lot.
text: Frustrated, Buddy swerves to the second aisle of cars,
text: determined to smoke out Baby. Looks low on the ground when -
text: HEADLIGHTS SWITCH ON. A dormant town car ROARS into life and
text: rams the Charger. BOOM. Buddy is slammed into a parked car.
text: The town car winds back. SLAMS again. Baby is at the wheel.
text: Buddy takes the second hit, but when he points his gun at the
text: town car, it is already reversing up and just crashes into the
text: wall. Baby is no longer at the wheel. Again, what the -
text: Is Buddy going mad? Or is Baby magic? Here and then gone.
text: As the guitars build up again, Buddy turns back into the
text: original aisle, the crashed Mustang now behind him. He looks to
dialog: one side, then the other but not -
text: AHEAD. Drums fill. Bass ramps up. HEADLIGHTS FLICK ON.
text: A third car, a big red angry Yukon, faces him and screams
text: forward. Buddy has nowhere to go and no run up. He’s trapped.
dialog: 98
dialog: 112.
text: Baby is at the wheel, gunning the Yukon, flooring it. As the
text: song rushes to a climax -
text: BOOM. Baby smashes into the Charger. BOOM. The Charger slams
text: back into the Mustang, which breaks through the barrier and
text: smashes down to P2.
text: Buddy stomps the gas. His tires screaming. But the Yukon is
text: winning the game of shove; Baby pushing Buddy to the edge.
text: Buddy raises his gun, fires. Baby ducks. A clean bullet hole
text: where his head once was. Both tires SCREAM.
text: Buddy raise to fire again. Click. He’s out. Game over.
text: The Charger tumbles over the broken barrier, landing upside
text: down on top of the fallen Mustang. The echo of carnage rings
text: out with the final chord of the song. ‘Brighton Rock' ends.
text: Baby reverses quickly to the exit. Then stalls. Sirens can be
text: heard distantly. But Baby thinks. Turns. Back down to P2.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING P2 - MOMENTS LATER 98
text: Baby pulls up to the wreckage of Buddy’s Charger. It rests on
text: top of his crushed Mustang. The driver door of the trashed
text: charger is obscured. We hear the engine hiss and die.
text: Baby jumps out of his car and reaches into the Mustang. Pulls
text: out the Queen and the Quincy Jones CD. Then hears -
text: An open door chime.
text: Baby slowly gets up and peers around to the other side of the
text: wrecked Charger. Blood splats on the concrete. The door open.
text: Behind him, the SNAP of a new clip.
text: Baby turns to see Buddy, a hunched up, limping, bleeding mess.
text: He is clearly dying. His head bleeding, his torso RED.
text: Buddy approaches Baby, gun aloft. As the color drains from his
text: face, there’s a hint of the Buddy from earlier. A smile.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: What can I say Baby? You did great.
dialog: You aced it.
text: Baby, not sure where this is going, is fixed to the spot.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: But you took away something I loved-
dialog: 113.
text: Buddy is at point blank range. Gun aimed at Baby’s head.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: So you know I’ve gotta do the same.
text: BANG. Buddy open fires right in Baby’s ear.
text: BANG. Buddy fires in the other ear.
text: Buddy falls down DEAD. Baby falls down DEAF.
text: HORRIFIC RINGING SOUND. Like the tinnitus amplified a million
text: times into a intense, awful WHINE.
text: Baby writhes on the floor. He rolls to see Buddy’s lifeless
text: face. Reflected on his dead skin. Red and blue lights. He can’t
text: hear the sirens, but knows the cops are coming.
text: Baby tries to stand, but his balance is off. He tumbles, his
text: hand going straight into broken glass. He screams, but we
text: cannot hear it over the WHINE. Neither can he.
text: Baby struggles to get to his car. His equilibrium all off. All
text: the while the red and blues are getting closer
text: Baby falls into his car. Fumbles to start it. The car feels
text: alien. Like he cannot operate without sound.
text: Baby struggles for the stereo, takes the Queen CD out and puts
text: it into the CD player. Then turns the volume up, up, up -
text: The music starts. It’s so loud, it makes the rear view mirror
text: shake violently. In it we see, POLICE CARS turn the corner.
text: Baby puts one bloody hand on the wheel, one on the speaker in
text: his driver door. Feels the vibrations of the music and then -
text: HITS THE GAS. Screaming out of P2 and roaring up the ramp. The
text: Black & Whites right behind him.
text: We hear NOTHING of the cars. Only the whine in Baby’s ears. We
text: see the rear view and wing mirror pulse with the music. The
text: tempo pulses through Baby’s hand on the speaker.
text: Baby makes it back to Pl, but a cruiser BLOCKS the exit. The
text: top level is FULL OF COPS. The only way out? The way in.
text: Baby swerves towards the ‘SEVERE TIRE DAMAGE’ sign. His tires
text: blow out, but he accelerates into the night, wheels on fire.
text: The cops are too slow to catch him. They struggle to maneuver,
text: as the Pacific Ghost disappears up the street.
dialog: 99
dialog: 100
dialog: 114.
text: The WHINE lingers on as a COP CAR pulls back out onto the
text: downtown streets and we see what he sees -
text: An empty street. An empty car. An open door. And no Baby.
scene_heading: INT. CAR — DAY 99
text: Sunlight. Baby is out cold. He looks bad. Cut, bruised. His
text: damaged hand is bandaged with whatever rag was in the car.
text: He wakes and sits up. He still cannot hear. But he can see.
text: The diner. He is parked right outside.
text: What was a friendly place before, now feels off. He cannot hear
dialog: a thing. Feel a thing. Barry White can’t help him now.
text: He sees DEBORA. Strolling into the diner. A pretty girl walking
text: to work, just like the first time he saw her.
text: She's singing along with her iPod again. But Baby cannot hear
text: what she is singing.
text: Baby looks to the cracked Quincy Jones CD, cues up a track. He
text: tries to make himself look respectable in the rear view.
scene_heading: INT. HALF EMPTY DINER - MOMENTS LATER 100
text: Debora is behind her counter, about to start her day. The TV
text: still has non-stop news coverage of the events of the last 24
text: hours, but again the sound is down.
text: The news reports show an artist impression of Baby. But no
text: name. He is a mystery man.
text: Debora picks up an LA Times also with the sketch of Baby on the
text: cover and shakes her head. She can’t believe it. Then -
text: BABY walks in. Limping. Cut. Bruised. He seems different.
text: Debora freezes. Her fellow staff don’t see Baby yet and don’t
text: connect the man from the TV or paper to the one who just calmly
text: walked up to the counter. Baby tells Debora quietly but firmly.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Let's go.
text: Debora breathes fast. Something in the tone of Baby’s voice has
text: changed. She doesn’t have time to think why.
dialog: 101
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Go?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: I want you to come with me. Right now.
text: Debora, as ever, cannot read Baby’s face. She glances to see
text: that one hand is firmly in his jacket pocket. Is he armed?
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Okay. Gimme a second.
text: Debora turns away and taking a pen out of her hair, quickly
text: scribbles something on her order pad. She leaves it on the
text: counter as she walks out of the diner.
dialog: It reads - ‘Help?’
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CAR/DINER - CONTINUOUS 101
text: Baby takes Debora to his car. A battered white ‘95 Cadillac
text: Eldorado convertible. Opens the door for her like a gentleman.
text: What’s more, he opens with his bad hand, no longer in his
text: jacket. She notices he isn’t armed, but still gets in.
text: Baby sits in the driver’s seat. Looks at Debora. She looks at
text: him expectantly. He looks at her, goofily happy.
text: She looks back into the diner. Colleagues have noticed she’s
text: gone. And left with him. And still Baby smiles back at her.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Are we not in a rush?
text: Baby cocks his head, like he doesn’t hear. She repeats.
speaker_heading: DEBORA (CONT'D)
dialog: Are we in a rush?
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: We got all the time in the world.
text: Debora doesn’t know how to respond to this. Half laughs.
speaker_heading: BABY (CONT’D)
dialog: I have this song I wanna play you.
text: Baby presses play. Huge rising horns. Baby reverses out.
dialog: 102
dialog: 116.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. BABY’S CAR/LA STREETS 102
dialog: ‘Lalo Bossa Nova’ by Quincy Jones.
text: A skipping Latin bossa nova beat. Cowbell. Shakers. Tambos. The
text: sun is out. Sky is blue. Some clouds ahead.
text: Baby plays Quincy Jones at FULL VOLUME. He can’t hear it, but
text: Debora can. It’s brassy, loud, defiantly upbeat.
text: She looks at Baby’s face. He observes the white lines
text: stretching ahead and looks calm, happy. He turns to her, asks
text: expectantly.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Do you like it?
text: Debora almost smiles, catches herself. What is she doing, with
text: the strange kid, who looks fucked up, driving off into the
text: horizon? She is still in the waitress outfit. It’s crazy.
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: Yes. Yes I do.
dialog: Baby doesn’t seem to think anything of it. In fact, we as an
text: audience have never seen him happier. He’s beaming.
text: Debora settles a little, she doesn’t know where they are going,
dialog: but it isn’t fast. This is a Sunday afternoon drive, not a
text: getaway. As the song settles into a slow soft toned guitar
text: solo, she finds herself looking at the scenery.
text: As horns return, she sees them first.
text: BLACK & WHITES. In her wing mirror. The glass reverberates with
text: the bass of the loud music, distorting their image.
text: Baby sees them too. In the rear view. He simply sighs as they
text: begin to crest over on a hill. And then on a mellow sax -
text: ROAD BLOCK dead ahead. Police as far as the eye can see. Debora
text: gasps. It’s a surprise party. But not a fun one.
text: Baby slows. Behind, the police cars block off the street. All
text: pedestrians and other cars have magically vanished.
text: It's just Baby, Debora and the cops.
text: Baby stops. As he puts the stick into reverse, he looks to
text: Debora. She has her eyes tightly closed. Her fingers clutch the
text: ‘oh shit’ handle. When she opens her eyes again, they are wet
text: with moisture. She’s scared.
dialog: 117.
text: He doesn’t want her to be scared. He turns the engine off. But,
text: magically, the music continues for our benefit.
text: To Debora’s amazement, Baby gets out of the car and walks
text: toward the cops, hands on his head.
text: Quincy Jones has completely taken over and we cannot hear the
text: harsh shouting of the police as they approach Baby from all
text: sides, guns trained, barking instruction.
text: On Debora, she’s relieved, confused and... conflicted?
text: To us the image of the cops approaching feels very surreal as,
text: unlike the opening credits, the police are the only ones in
text: time with the music, approaching Baby in step with Quincy.
text: Baby takes off his jacket to show he is unarmed. With just a T-
text: shirt and jeans on, he looks like what he is, a kid.
text: He turns back to her and mouths -
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: Sorry.
text: The police grab him, throw him violently to the ground and
text: swarm around him. Debora can see they are beyond angry.
text: As Baby hits the deck, all the instruments drop out and on a
text: four bar drum solo, the cops proceed to kick and punch him.
text: Debora jumps out the passenger door and SCREAMS —
speaker_heading: DEBORA
dialog: No!
text: MONTAGE: The following is set to the supremely upbeat ‘Lalo
text: Bossa Nova'. In this sequence, everyone is in time with the
text: beat, except a beaten, bruised and defeated Baby.
text: - We see Baby’s mug-shot taken.
dialog: - Baby in court being sentenced.
text: - We see Debora on the witness stand. Swearing an oath.
text: - Baby in shackles, walking with other prisoners.
text: - Baby on a prison bus driving north.
text: - Baby arriving at the big house.
dialog: - Baby being given his new clothes.
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
dialog: 118.
text: - Baby walking with a guard down a concrete corridor.
text: - Baby being shown to his 9’ by 5’ prison cell. He takes in his
text: living quarters. His ELDERLY CELLMATE is roughly the age of
text: Joseph. His new one room apartment.
text: The song fades out. As he sits alone with his thoughts, we are
text: left with Baby's buzz of deafness.
text: - Time passes. Baby navigates prison life.
dialog: - Through the buzz, we see Baby focus on anything that has
text: visual rhythm. People doing jumping jacks in the yard. A warden
text: shutting cell doors at night. People sparring in the gym.
text: Someone mopping the floor.
text: - We see him in the machine shop, hypnotized by a metal
text: stamping contraption. Other inmates working here wear eye and
text: ear protection. Baby only has the protective visor on.
text: He stares at the machine, nodding as if listening to dance
text: music. Tries to get lost in the rhythm of the machine.
scene_heading: INT. BABY’S CELL - DAY 103
text: On Baby, sitting alone in his cell, staring out to nothing. A
text: guard comes past and hands him an envelope.
text: Inside is a postcard with a 50s style illustration of a young
text: couple in a classic convertible, just like the artwork in the
text: diner. Also inside, a beautiful, neatly handwritten letter.
text: But first Baby notices: The scent.
text: He sniffs, inhales the perfume on the letter. When he stops, he
text: cocks an ear at the faint sound of burning rubber.
scene_heading: INT. PRISON UNIT - DAY 104
text: Baby wanders out of his cell, letter still in hand.
text: The noises of roaring engines and screeching tires reverberate
text: around the prison halls. It emanates from the TV room.
text: Baby enters this communal room, where inmates gather around a
text: 35 inch TV set showing the noisy Sunday NASCAR races.
text: Baby sees his ELDERLY CELLMATE sitting at the back of the room.
text: He sits down by him. Shows him the letter.
dialog: 105
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: BABY
dialog: What’s this say?
text: The Elderly Cellmate peers through thick glasses at the fancy
text: handwriting on the letter and blankly intones.
scene_heading: ELDERLY CELLMATE
dialog: “Hey Baby. I’m sorry too. I know from
dialog: court your real name is Miles, but I
dialog: don’t know too many Miles songs so we
dialog: can stick with Baby. Deal?
text: Baby stares at the Elderly Cellmates lips and we magically hear
text: Debora’s actual voice as he continues.
speaker_heading: DEBORA (V.O)
dialog: I found another Debora song. It’s by
text: Dave Edmunds. The lyrics say she’s a
dialog: ‘heart breaking, love making
dialog: connoisseur’ and frankly she sounds
dialog: like a bad person, so I am discounting
dialog: it. Hope this finds you okay. Maybe
dialog: drive off another time? D.”
text: Baby closes his eyes. Hears the sweet music of automobiles.
scene_heading: EXT. PRISON - DAY 105
dialog: ‘Baby Driver’ by Simon & Garfunkel.
text: Baby walks out of the prison gates into the sunshine. Waiting
text: for him is a smiling DEBORA. Looking adorable but-
text: She is wearing 50s dress; bobby socks, pleated skirt, white
text: blouse, cardigan over the shoulders, just like the young woman
text: in the artwork from the postcard.
text: She stands before a gleaming classic convertible, a white 1954
text: Cadillac Eldorado. She opens the passenger door for Baby.
text: Baby walks over to the car. He is now also wearing 50s clothes,
text: looking like the young man from the diner artwork.
text: Baby jumps in. Debora pops it in drive. They kiss and then head
text: out on the open road.
speaker_heading: CREDITS
dialog: 
