dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PARADOX
dialog: BACK TO THE FUTURE II & Ill
speaker_heading: REVISED DRAFT
speaker_heading: 19 DECEMBER 1988 (BLUE)
dialog: w/revision:
speaker_heading: 12/25/88, 1/18/89 (PINK)
speaker_heading: 1/27/89 (YELLOW)
speaker_heading: 1/11/89, 2/2/89 (GREEN)
speaker_heading: 2/8/89 (GOLDENROD)
dialog: “The only thing more uncertain than the future is the past.”
speaker_heading: Soviet Proverb
text: (Obviously, the colored-page revisions do notappear in this file. However, parts that
text: were revised can be noted by asterisks appearing at the ends of lines, and in
text: remarks, noting points at which scenes were either omitted or deleted.)
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: A GENERAL NOTE ABOUT SCENE NUMBERING
text: The scene numbering in this script contains large blocks of “reserved” numbers for the
dialog: following reason:
text: Every time we travel to a different time period (except for the 1985 prologue), the scene
text: numbers jump to a new 3-digit number, as follows:
dialog: 1—7:
dialog: 8— 61:
dialog: 201 — 238:
dialog: 300 — 386:
dialog: 501 — 578:
dialog: 701 — 713:
dialog: 1985 Prologue
dialog: 2015
dialog: “Biff 198"
dialog: 1955
dialog: 1888
dialog: 1985
text: This is intended to make breakdowns easier because simply by looking at a scene number,
dialog: you can tell what time period we are in.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
text: MAIN TITLE SEQUENCE over selected footage from “Back To The Future:” including the
text: characters, the DeLorean, and other pertinent images... finally bringing us into
scene_heading: INT. McFLY GARAGE/EXT. McFLY HOUSE — DAY
text: Weare recreating the closing moments of “Back to the Future:”
text: The garage door opens, revealing MARTY OUTSIDE, who enters and reacts to seeing his black
text: Toyota truck for the first time.
scene_heading: SUPER TITLE: “Saturday, October 26, 1985. 10:38 A.M.”
speaker_heading: JENNIFER (O.8.)
dialog: How about a ride, mister?
text: Marty turns and sees JENNIFER standing in the driveway.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jennifer! Oh, are you a sight for sore eyes! Let me look at you!
text: Marty goes to her.
text: Jennifer doesn't quite understand Marty's reaction.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Marty, you're acting like you haven't seen me in a week!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | haven't.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Are you okay? Is everything all right?
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: (looks back at the house, smiles)
dialog: Oh, yeah! Everything is great.
text: MARTY embraces JENNIFER in front of the house.
text: They're about to kiss — then, 3 sonic booms and the “Mr. Fusion” modified DELOREAN
text: SCREECHES into the driveway!
text: DOC BROWN jumps out, frantic, dressed in his wild future garb and wraparound glasses.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty! You've got to come back with me.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Back to the future!
text: Doc pulls a beer can and banana peels out of the garbage and dumps them into the “Mr. Fusion
dialog: Unit.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Wait a minute, what are you doin’, Doc?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: | need fuel! Go ahead, quick, get in the car!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No, no, no, Doc, | just got here, Jennifer's here — we're gonna
dialog: take the new truck out for a spin...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Well, bring her along! This concems her, too!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Wait a minute, Doc, what are you talking about, Doc? What
dialog: happens to us in the future? Do we become assholes or
dialog: something?
dialog: No, no, you and Jennifer both turn out fine. It’s your kids, Marty.
dialog: Something's gotta be done about your kids!
text: Marty and Jennifer exchange a look.
text: THE DELOREAN backs out of the McFly driveway and into the street.
scene_heading: INT. DELOREAN
text: DOC engages switches and time circuits; MARTY and JENNIFER sit together in the passenger
dialog: seat.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, you'd better back up. We don’t have enough road toget up
dialog: to 88.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Roads? Where we're going, we don't need roads.
text: Doc flips another switch.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET — DELOREAN
text: The wheels rotate 90 degrees, and the DMC lifts up and off the ground!
scene_heading: EXT. MCFLY HOUSE FRONT DOOR
text: BIFF, 42, comes bounding out of the McF ly house with a DISTINCTIVE BOOK OF MATCHES,
dialog: “Biff's Auto Detailing.”
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Say, Marty, | want to show you these new matchbooks | had
dialog: printed up—
text: Biff stops short and reacts with astonishment at the sight of the flying car.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: A flying DeLorean...?
scene_heading: BIFF’S P.0.V. OF THE SKY — FLYING DELOREAN — DAY
text: The flying vehicle accelerates and blasts into the future, vanishing from 1995,leaving behind FIRE 6
text: TRAILS in the air which quickly burn out!
text: BIFF reacts. His eyes narrow with suspicion. Sinister suspicion. 7
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: What the hell is going on here?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FLYING DMC — DAY 8
text: Thru the windshield is a STACCATO TRIPLE FLASH OF WHITE LIGHT, followed by
text: POURING RAIN which wipes out visibility.
text: Doc flips on the windshield wipers — to discover they're flying right into the path of an
dialog: oncoming FLYING TRUCK!
dialog: Marty and Jennifer SCREAM!
text: Doc jerks the wheel, narrowly avoiding a collision.
text: The angry TRUCK DRIVER sticks his head out the window.
speaker_heading: TRUCK DRIVER
dialog: Stay in your own lane, maxole!
text: As Doc maneuvers the DMC to the correct side of the FLOATING LANE MARKERS, Marty
text: and Jennifer turn to see what almost hit them.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What was that?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Teamster.
speaker_heading: AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (V.O. RADIO)
dialog: DeLorean, vector 12, this is air traffic control. You've made
dialog: unauthorized entry into commercial transport airspace. Why
dialog: the hell wasn’t your transponder on, over?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Roger, we're experiencing minor technical transponder
text: difficulty. We're descending now for a repair, over and out.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What the hell’s going on, Doc? Where are we?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: The future.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The future??
text: Doc points to the time display: “Oct 21, 2015 4:29 pm.”
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Hill Valley, California: 2015.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 2015?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: 201571?
text: Doc quickly holds a penlight device to Jennifer's face which STROBES blue light. Jennifer
text: imm ediately passes out.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, what are you doing?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Relax, Marty, it’s just a sleep inducing alpha rhythm
dialog: generator. | don’t want her to see too much of the future.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jeez, Doc, then why bring her?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: | had to do something. She saw the time machine, and |
dialog: couldn't just leave her there with that information. This way,
text: when she wakes up, she'll think it was all a dream.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well...you're the Doc.
scene_heading: 9 EXT. ABOVE HILL VALLEY, 2015 9
text: The FLYING DMC descends through the clouds.
scene_heading: 10 EXT. ALLEY — DAY 10
text: The DeLorean lands in a long ALLEY. It still has a bit of residue FROST on it.
scene_heading: 11 INT. DELOREAN 11
text: Doc turns off some of the switches.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: First you're gonna have to get out and change clothes. *
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: Doc, it's pouring rain.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Oh, right...
dialog: (checks his watch)
dialog: Wait 3 more seconds...
text: In 3 seconds the rain abruptly stops, to be replaced by bright sunlight!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Right on the tick. Too bad the post office isn’t as efficient as
dialog: the weather service.
text: Doc and Marty throw open their gullwing doors.
scene_heading: 12 EXT. ALLEY 12
text: As they get out of the DeLorean, Doc peels plastic material off his face — as if removing a
dialog: disguise.
text: Marty stares in disbelief.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Excuse the disguise, Marty, but | was afraid you wouldn't
dialog: recognize me. | went to a rejuvenation clinic; had ‘em take
dialog: some wrinkles out, got a hair repair — added a good 30 to 40
dialog: years to my life. |also had my spleen and colon replaced.
dialog: What do you think?
text: Doc now looks YOUNGER and healthier. He “models” his younger face.
text: Doc takes out a
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You look good, Doc. Real good.
dialog: (starts down the alley)
dialog: The future! Whoa, | gotta check this out!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: All in good time, Marty. We're on a tight schedule here.
dialog: Here're your clothes.
text: FUTURISTIC GYM BAG, then goes around to get Jennifer out of the car.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: So, Doc, like what about my future? | make it big, right?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty, please, that's not why we're here.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You can tell me, Doc. What am | — like, a rich rock star?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Please, Marty, no one should know too much about their own
dialog: destiny.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (takes this as a “no”)
dialog: Okay...well, at least, I'm rich, right?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Damn. Maybe | shouldn't be doing this. Maybe | should just
dialog: forget this whole thing and take you both back home.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, I'm sorry, Doc. I'm just excited, that's all. Everybody
dialog: wants to know about their future.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: That's what I'm afraid of.
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Well, we're here. Let’s hope my plan works. Change clothes:
dialog: We've got a mission to accomplish.
text: As Marty starts unbuttoning his shirt, Doc lifts the unconscious JENNIFER out of the DeLorean
text: and puts her down in a doorway alcove behind a futuristic waste processing unit.
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You mean we're just gonna leave her?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It's too risky to take her with me. Don’t worry, she'll be safe.
text: She’s out of sight, and it'll just be for a few minutes.
text: From his pocket, Doc pulls out FUTURISTIC BINO CULARS — a thin plastic card with eye
text: lenses that looks like a cheap toy.
text: Doc runs down to the opposite end of the alley and starts looking around for something.
text: We INTERCUT Marty as he dons the future clothes:
text: The shirt “buttons” with velcro.
text: The jacket seems too big for Marty, until he touches a pressure pad on the sleeve, “Un-size
text: form fit.” Instantly, the sleeves automatically shorten and the jacket tailors its elf to Marty's
dialog: body, to his delight!
text: Doc continues looking around intently through the binocs. At last he focuses on something.
scene_heading: DOC’SP.OV. THRU BINOCULARS OF 13
text: the back of a young man’s head: he’s wearing a FUTURISTIC YELLOW CAP. (The binocular
dialog: matte includes digital readouts for distance, tem perature, etc.)
text: DOC nods, satisfied. He hurries back to the DMC. 14
text: Meanwhile, MARTY can't figure out how to “tie” his future (Nike) shoes. He examines them,
text: and touches a pad. The shoe zip-laces itself shut!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Power laces! All right!
text: Marty is now fully dressed in future garb.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Okay, Doc, so what's the deal?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: In exactly 2 minutes, you go around the corner, into the “Cafe *
dialog: 80's.”
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Cafe 80's? *
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It's one of those nostalgia places, but not done very well. Go
dialog: in and order a Pepsi — here's a fifty.
text: Doc hands Marty a future 50-dollar bill, with rainbow holographic borders.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Then wait for a guy named “Griff.”
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: “Griff.” *
dialog: 15
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Right. Griff's going to ask you about tonight — are you in or
dialog: out? Tellhim you're out. Whatever he says, whatever
dialog: happens, say: no, you're not interested. Then leave, come
dialog: back here and wait for me. Don't talk to anybody, don't touch
dialog: anything, don’tdo anything, don’t interact with anyone.
text: Doc rummages around in the DeLorean and pulls out a bag.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | don't get it, Doc. | thought this has something to do with my
dialog: kids.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Precisely. In those clothes, you're the spitting image of your
dialog: future son — with one last finishing touch...
text: From the bag, Doc pulls a yellow cap identical to the one he saw a moment ago and puts iton
text: Marty’s head.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Perfect!
dialog: (his watch BEEPS)
dialog: Damn, I'm late!
text: Doc rushes back down the far end of the alley.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, wait! Where you going?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: To intercept the real Marty Junior. You're taking his place!
text: Doc disappears around the corner.
text: Marty shrugs.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Marty Junior. With a name like that, how can he go wrong?
text: He takes a deep breath and steps out of the alley onto:
scene_heading: EXT. HILL VALLEY COURTHOUSE SQUARE, 2015 — DAY 15
text: Yes, its COURTHOUSE SQUARE — familiar enough to recognize, but vastly changed...for
dialog: the better:
text: The streets are now GIGANTIC SIDEWALKS, for pedestrians and bicycles only — no cars,
text: which are restricted to ELEVATED STREETS. (There are “No Parking” and “No Landing” signs
dialog: posted).
text: In the center, the village green has been restored and improved, with a DUCK POND and a
speaker_heading: FOUNTAIN.
text: The renovated COURTHOUSE is now the entrance to COURTHOUSE MALL, boasting over
text: 75 underground shops; the CLOCKTOW ER has the same clock, cleaned up, restored, and
text: preserved behind hermetically sealed plexiglass (it's a tourist attraction) ...and still stopped at
dialog: 10:04.
dialog: 16
dialog: 17
dialog: 18
dialog: 19
text: The TEXACO STATION is now a 2-LEVEL GAS STATION. A car lands on the upper level and
text: a series of ROBOT ARMS immediately go to work washing the windshield and checking the
dialog: tires.
text: A PLASTIC SURGERY FRANCHISE, “Bottoms Up,” advertising FACE LIFTS and a sale on
dialog: Breast Implants.
text: A ROBOTICS SHOP displays robots and accessories (sales, service, rentals).
text: Billboards for “TWA Vietnam Vacations,” “Pepsi Plus (it's vitamin enriched),” and “G.E.
dialog: Superconductors.”
text: A HOLOGRAPHIC THEATER playing “JAW S 14” (This time, it's really, really pers onal) *
dialog: directed by Max Spielberg.
text: A VIDEO SOFTWARE STORE advertising the “Video Classic: A Match Made in Space.”
text: And the perennial FINANCE COMPANY offering Easy Credit: some things never change.
text: The people in general seem in better physical condition — few are fat or wear glasses
text: (although there are plenty of wild sunglasses and videoglasses).
text: There are Kids with painted faces — a contemporary fad.
text: A group of HARE-KRISHNAS are chanting in the square.
text: And PUBLIC UTILITY WORKERS are tearing up the street.
text: MARTY stares wide-eyed, taking it allin. He walks past 16
text: AN ANTIQUE STORE in which the display window is filled with “RARE ANTIQUES” — 17
text: common household objects of the 1970's and 80's: a Betamax, Perrier bottles, a Super-8
text: Movie camera, a Macintosh computer, mannequins with old clothes, and a BOOK: “SPORTS
text: ALMANAC 1950— 2000.” (There's also a sign: “We buy antique coins and bills.”)
text: MARTY spots the “CAFE 80's” located where Lou’s Malt Shop was in 1955. 18
dialog: He goes in. *
scene_heading: INT. CAFE 80'S 19*
text: Marty enters and looks around.
text: The decor incorporates icons of the 1980'S (“Baby On Board” signs, “oldies” music, Miami
text: Vice colors, etc.). The front portion is like a fast food operation. pictorial menus above the
text: counter show various food items.
text: There are “Watchman” type video screens for each seat. Instead of waitresses, there are
text: ROBOT/DROIDS With VIDEO SCREEN heads behind the counter. The screen flashes and
text: the face of RONALD REAGAN appears on it, in a “Max Headroom” computer synthesized
dialog: image.
speaker_heading: DROID (VIDEO)
dialog: Welcome to Cafe 80'S where it's always Morning in America
dialog: — even in the afternoon...
text: The “Morning In America” cam paign commercial plays behind “Reagan.”
text: Marty stares in amazement, taken aback by the startling technology.
speaker_heading: DROID (REAGAN)
dialog: Our special today is Mesquite grilled sushi, cajun style, dipped
text: in a Thai cilantro sauce.
text: Suddenly, the image becomes AYAT OLLAH KHOMENI.
speaker_heading: DROID (KHOMENI)
dialog: No! It is the Great Satan Special! | demand you have Tofu!
dialog: (becomes MICHAEL JACKSON)
dialog: Hey... Be cool. Don't be bad. We're all friends here.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, could | have...a Pepsi?
text: Marty holds up his Fifty.
speaker_heading: DROID (REAGAN)
dialog: Cash? Well, it's much easier to just use your thumb...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Huh? Uh, no, I'll pay cash.
speaker_heading: DROID (REAGAN)
dialog: Well, there’s a handling surcharge on cash, but, well, okay,
dialog: we'll. take cash.
text: Marty puts the bill down on a tray on the counter. Its sucked into a machine. There are some
text: electronic sounds, some whirring noises, and then a PEPSI PERFECT in a futuristic container
text: is dispensed via the food delivery system.
speaker_heading: DROID (REAGAN)
dialog: And your change, rounded off to the nearest dollar...
text: Two 1-dollar bills come out of the unit.
text: Marty takes his change. He takes the Pepsi and examines it He can't figure out how to open
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.8.)
dialog: Hey, McFly!
text: The voice and tone are familiar — too familiar. Marty turns.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Biff!
text: Yes, it's BIFF TANNEN, 78 years old, white hair, craggy features. He's at a table, eating sushi
text: and watching a SPORTS EVENT on his watchman screen. Biff gives him a look and nods
text: knowingly.
text: Marty approaches him, staring in disbelief at his aged features.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Yeah. I've seen you around. You're Marty McFly's kid, huh?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Huh? What?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Marty Junior. You look like him, too. Tough break, kid: it must
dialog: be rough being named after a complete butthead.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What's that supposed to mean?
text: Biff takes his CANE — the top is a sculpted CLENCHED FIST — and knocks it on Marty's
dialog: forehead.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hello? Anybody home? Think, McFly, think! Your old man:
dialog: Mr. Loser.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What? A loser?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: That's right. A loser with a capital “L.”
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That can't be! | happen to know that George McFly is no
dialog: longer a loser.
text: Outside, through the window, a beat up 89 BMW Convertible Hover conversion pulls up to the
text: cafe with 4 GUYS in it. The vehicle parks and the guys get out.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: No, George McFly’s never been a loser. But I'm not talking
dialog: about George McFly. I'm talking about his kid — your old
dialog: man: Marty McFly. Senior.
text: (a beat as Biff shakes his head)
text: He just took his life and flushed it com pletely down the toilet.
text: Marty stands there in stunned shock.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: M-m-me? Marty?
text: Now a KID, 19, who bears a startling resemblance to Biff, steps in.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Hey, Gramps, | told you two coats of wax on my car, not just
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hey, | just put the 2nd coat on last week.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Yeah, with your eyes closed. Come out here and scan it. It'sa
dialog: lo-res job.
text: Marty looks back and forth between the two in amazement.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, are you two related?
text: Again Biff knocks on Marty's head with his cane.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hello? Anybody home? Whaddaya think, Griff just calls me
dialog: grandpa for his health.
text: Marty looks at Biff's grandson with an “oh shit’ reaction.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: He's Griff.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Gramps, nuke the bab-sesh and get out here, ‘orrita! What
dialog: the hell am | payin’ you for?
dialog: (to Marty)
dialog: And McFly: don’t go anywhere. You're next!
text: Biff heads for the door.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Listen, Griff, don’t you go loanin’ that McFly kid any money —
text: even though he probably needs it...him and his old man both.
text: Biff exits, leaving Marty dumbfounded.
text: Marty watches through the window as Griff points out to Biff some problem with the finish on
text: his beat up junker. Also present are Griff's gang, a girland 2 guys: SPIKE, WHITEY and
speaker_heading: HACK.
text: On a VIDEO SCREEN, a Rock Video “Oldie” comes on: “Power of Love.”
text: Marty watches and nods to the beat.
text: 3 nearby GIRLS, about 13, shake their heads.
speaker_heading: GIRL #1
dialog: Oh, shred that! | only scan that kinda vid at my grandma's!
speaker_heading: GIRL #2
dialog: Yeah, what do they call it? Rock and rail?
speaker_heading: GIRL #3
dialog: It doesn't even sound like music!
speaker_heading: GIRL #1
dialog: Yeah, thank God we didn’t have to live in the 80's. It must
dialog: have been terrible.
text: Marty feels very old.
text: Nearby is an ARCADE VIDEO GAME from the 80's: “GUN FIGHTER.” It’s one of those where
text: you shoot a light gun at the video screen. A KID, about 8. is looking at it. He can’t figure it out.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: How do you play this thing?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I'll show you, kid. I'm a crack shot at this one. Where do you
dialog: put in the quarter?
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Quarter? What's a quarter?
text: Marty touches his thumb to a thumbplate where the money would normally go and the game
dialog: starts up. So that's how you “use your thumb.”
text: Marty zaps every target, no sweat. He’s a crack shot.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: You mean you have to use your hands? That's like a baby
dialog: toy!
dialog: Marty really feels old.
text: Marty takes a few more shots, the REAL MARTY JUNIOR passes by out the window, on his
text: way into the cafe. He’s unnoticed by Griff, Biff and the boys, who are absorbed in the car.
text: MARTY sees him coming. He's horrified.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Damn!
text: Marty runs behind the counter and ducks down, hiding.
speaker_heading: JUNIOR enters.
text: Marty gets a good look at his future son.
text: JUNIOR, 17, although dressed like Marty, carries himself quite differently. Ina word, he’sa
text: mess: his jacket doesn't fit right (the uni-fit system is broken), he has food stains all over him,
text: and unkempt hair sticks out of his yellow cap. He’s a combination of Marty's looks with the
dialog: personality of young George McFly.
speaker_heading: DROID (REAGAN)
dialog: Welcome to Cafe 80's where it's always—
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: Pepsi Perfect.
text: Junior pays for it by putting his thumb to a thum bplate device on the counter, and the delivery
text: unit dispenses a Pepsi.
text: Now GRIFF and the GUYS enter.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Hey, McFly!
text: Junior turns and smiles weakly.
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: Hi, Griff, guys. How’s it going?
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Hey, McFly, your shoe's unvelked.
text: Junior falls for it; Griff slaps him and he and his boys all laugh. Junior laughs, too.
text: Marty winces at the humiliation.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: So, McFly, have you made your decision ab out... tonight's
dialog: little op portunity?
text: Marty reacts with increased concern.
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: Uh, well, I’m still not sure. Seems kinda dangerous...
speaker_heading: SPIKE
dialog: What's wrong? You got no scroat?
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: What's it gonna be McFly? You in or out?
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: Well... [don’t really think | should, but! guess | should discuss
dialog: it with my fath—
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Are you saying “no,” McFly?
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: Uh, well, yes. That is, I'm saying, “no, thank you.”
text: Marty sighs relief.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Wrong answer, McFly.
text: As he says it, Griff picks up Marty Junior and THROWS HIM OVER THE COUNTER right next
dialog: to where Marty is hiding!
dialog: The guys alllaugh.
text: Some of the patrons react with concern; some make phone calls on their wrist or headgear
text: phones to 911.
speaker_heading: DROID (REAGAN)
dialog: Now, now, let's behave ourselves.
text: MARTY stares at his unconscious future son, lying there.
text: Marty takes a deep breath and stands up. Griff grabs him by the jacket and pulls him over the
dialog: counter.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Now, let's hear the right answer, or you're gonna geta
dialog: knuckle brioche...
text: Marty shoves Griff, and clenches a fist, about to throw a punch.
text: Griff and the guys react with surprise at such unusual behavior for Marty Junior.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Well, well, well, since when did you become the physical
dialog: type?
text: Marty remembers who he’s supposed to be and unclenches his fist.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Look, Griff, the answer's “no
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: No?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: N-O.
text: Marty turns around and starts for the door.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: What's wrong, McFly? Chicken?
text: Marty stops just before he reaches the door. His body tenses, his face tightens, his anger
dialog: rises...
speaker_heading: SPIKE
dialog: | told you he’s got no scroat.
speaker_heading: HACK
dialog: (pulls Marty's yellow hat off)
dialog: Sure, why dya think he wears yellow?
text: Marty is seething.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What did you call me, Griff?
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Chicken, McF ly!
text: Griff and the guys make “clucking” sounds.
text: Marty tums around with resolve.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Nobody calls me chicken!
text: Griff picks up a plate from the table and hurls it at Marty. Marty dodges it; Griff charges him;
dialog: then Marty trips Griff!
text: Griff falls to the floor.
text: There's a moment of stunned silence from Griff's boys. This is clearly uncharacteristic
dialog: behavior for Marty Junior.
text: Griff gets back on his feet and rises in front of Marty, slowly standing to his full height.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: All right, punk, you've been looking for—
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey — look!
text: Griff falls for it and turns, and Marty throws a punch... but Griff raises his arm and blocks it.
text: A beat, then Marty knees him in the groin!
dialog: 20-24
dialog: 25
dialog: 26
dialog: 26-A
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
text: Griff wails in pain and drops to his knees.
text: Marty runs for it, ramming into Griffs gang, who fall down like dominoes!
text: Marty bolts out of the cafe.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 20-24
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE 80'S — DAY 25
text: Marty runs past Biff, who is doing some work on Griff's car.
text: MARTY spots TWO GIRLS behind the hedge, apparently on kiddie skateboard-scooters. 26
text: MARTY jumps over the hedge and grabs one of ‘em, pulling off the detachable scooter handle
text: and converting it into a skateboard.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, kid, | need your—
text: Marty stops short as he examines the pink board: there’s a loop strap for one foot but it has
dialog: NO WHEELS!
dialog: Its brand name: “(-----) -) HOVERBOARD!”"
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hoverboard?
text: He throws it down and it hovers a few inches above the ground!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: All right!
text: Marty hops on it and kicks itup to speed: it functions just like a skateboard! He glides
text: diagonally into the square, along the path that juts out into the pond.
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE 26-A*
text: Now GRIFF and the GANG come running out of the cafe.
text: They spot Marty hoverboarding out toward the pond.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: There he is! Hey, McFly! You're a dead file!
text: Marty looks back at them and just smiles, confident that he’s escaped.
text: BIFF watching, scratches his head as memories return. 27
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: There's something fam iliar about all this...
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN SQUARE 28
text: Griff and the guys run to Griffs BMW and pull4 HOVERBOARDS from the back seat: wicked
dialog: looking models that look a whole lot faster than Marty's!
text: Marty quits gloating and gets moving! The path he’s on ends as an island in the pond: Marty *
text: cuts sideways and continues OVER the water toward the COURTHOUSE — but the board *
text: slows... then stops.
text: He's stalled above the pond, 15 feet from the edge! Marty looks behind him.
speaker_heading: HACK
dialog: McFly, you bojo, those boards don’t work on water — unless
dialog: you've got power!
text: Griff pulls out the MEANEST LOOKING HOVERBOARD in existence: THE PIT BULL! it's
text: powered with 2 jets, its got fins, and has spikes around it — it resembles a chain saw!
text: Griff throws it down. It hums and hovers to life with an electronic GROWL!
text: Griff hops on it and does the hoverboard version of a wheelie, just to show off how skilled he
dialog: is.
text: Marty reacts with fear. He tries to kick off the water. He almost falls off — it’s like balancing on
text: a log.
text: Griff smiles sadistically at the helpless Marty. Now Spike, Whitey and Hack fall in behind Griff.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: Hook on.
text: The guys pull tow lines out from the back of Griff’s board.
text: Griff whips outa collapsible BASEBALL BAT.
speaker_heading: GRIFF
dialog: I'm gonna take his head off!
text: Griff kicks his foot against the engine. He accelerates forward, towing his boys behind him.
text: Again, Marty tries to paddle with his foot, to no avail!
text: Griff raises the bat and takes a batter's stance.
text: The guys fan out behind Griff, cackling sadistically. Marty, panicked, turns and sees Griff and
dialog: the guys bearing down on him!
text: Griff goes into his backswing...
text: Marty is petrified...
text: Griff starts his swing...
text: Then Marty pulls his foot from the strap, and simply STEPS OFF THE HOVERBOARD, AND
text: DROPS INTO THE POND!
text: As Marty's head hits the water, Griff's board whizzes across, missing him by millimeters!
text: Griff can't stop his swing — he loses his balance in his follow-thru, causing himself and the
text: guys to go flying wildly and completely out of control at the Courthouse!
text: 2 guys are knocked into columns, one goes through the door, and another through a window!
dialog: ALARMS go off!
text: Marty comes up from underwater as the 3 empty hoverboards of Griff's guys drop to a hover
dialog: nearby.
dialog: 29
dialog: 30
text: UNIFORMED SECURITY GUARDS come rushing out of the Courthouse to apprehend the
dialog: punks.
text: Marty sighs in relief at his escape. He paddles ashore with the little girl's pink board.
text: He climbs out and spots the little girl and hands back her board.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Thanks a lot, kid.
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRL
dialog: Keep it. I've got a Pit Bullnow!
text: Indeed, she has Griff's board and she hovers away on it.
text: As Marty walks off with the pink hoverboard, his JACKET PUFFS UP WITH AIR: the “Drying
text: Mode.” Hot air even blows his face from the collar! In seconds, the jacket's completely dry.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 29%
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN SQUARE — DAY 30
text: MARTY sighs in relief at his escape.
text: He tucks the hoverboard under his arm and starts walking back across the square toward the
dialog: alley.
text: Behind him, a MAN is walking around with a portable THUMB UNIT, soliciting. *
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Save the clock tower! Save the clock tower! *
text: Marty passes a large DIAMOND VISION screen which shows a com puter graphic
text: “SportsFlash” of some BASEBALL FOOTAGE, and the headline:
text: “CUBS SWEEP MIAMI IN WORLD SERIES!”
text: Marty can't believe what he’s seeing.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The Cubs win the World Series ? Against Miami?
text: The Clocktower Man next to him shakes his head sympathetically.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Yeah, a hundred-to-one shot. Who woulda thought? Sure
dialog: wish | could go back in time and lay some bets on them
dialog: Cubbies.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No, | just meant that Miami—
dialog: (sudden realization)
dialog: What did you just say?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: | said, | sure wish | could go back in time and put money on
dialog: the Cubs. *
dialog: 30-A
dialog: 30-B
dialog: 31-32
dialog: 32-A
dialog: 33
text: Marty’s face lights up with a great idea.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah! *
text: Marty looks toward the ANTIQUE STORE.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ANTIQUE STORE WINDOW 30-A
text: CLOSE ON an “antique” BOOK: “Grey's SPORTS ALMANAC: 50 Years of Sports Statistics,
dialog: 1950— 2000. Includes Baseball. Football, Horse Racing, Boxing.”
text: A HAND (MARTY'’S) reaches in and pulls it out. *
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: MARTY exiting the antique store, with a SILVER BAG (made of some new futuristic material) 30-B
text: with the store logo, along with a receipt.
text: Marty opens the bag and takes out the Sports Almanac.
text: He smiles and looks back at OLD BIFF, who is still polishing Griffs BMW. *
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: A loser, am |?
text: Marty puts the Almanac back in the silver bag along with the receipt and toward the alley.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 31-32
text: OLD BIFF glances up from the car and gives Marty a look. 32-A*
text: As Old Biff turns his attention back to the BMW, he sees THE REAL MARTY JUNIOR coming
dialog: out of Cafe 80's.
text: Old Biff does a double-take, looks back over at Marty, then again at Marty Junior, who hurries
text: off in another direction, never noticing Old Biff or Marty.
speaker_heading: OLD BIFF
dialog: What the hell? Two of ‘em?
text: Old Biff is suspicious. He moves cautiously toward Marty.
text: MARTY turns the corner into the ALLEY only to stop short because POLICE VEHICLE is on 33
text: the scene. 2 FEMALE (unarmed) 2 COPS, REESE and FOLEY, are examining the
text: unconscious JENNIFER.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Tranked out, I'd say. Smell her ears.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (smells Jennifer's ears)
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Run a thumb check.
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
text: Foley has a pressure pad device (brand name: “Identi-Pad”) and pushes Jennifer's thumb to a
text: silver thumbplate.
text: A COMPUTER SYNTHESIZED VOICE replies.
speaker_heading: COM PU-VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Name: McFly, Jennifer Jane Parker. Address: 1131 Park
dialog: Lane, Hilldale. Date of Birth: October 29, 1968. Arrests:
dialog: none. Warrants: none. Convictions: none.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Hey, did it just say her birthday was 1968? She's got one
dialog: helluva job! Wonder who her doctor is. My mother-in-law
dialog: could use a lift like this.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: She couldn't afford work like that. Well, she's clean; that
dialog: means we take her home.
text: They carry her to their vehicle.
text: MARTY watches in horror as the Police Vehicle takes off with Jennifer. 34
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, no!
text: Marty runs back into town square.
speaker_heading: DOC (O.S.)
dialog: Marty! Over here!
text: Marty tums and spots Doc coming around the corner by the Cafe 80's. He has a
text: NEWSPAPER (USA TODAY — Hill Valley Edition). Doc is now in 1985 clothes.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc! We're in serious shit!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: | know! My plan failed! Marty, what went wrong in there?
text: Doc points to the Cafe.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: In there? Well, for one thing, the real Marty Junior showed up.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Great Scott! The sleep inducer! Because | used it on Jennifer,
dialog: there wasn’t enough power left to knock your son out for the
dialog: full 20 minutes. Damn!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, besides that — Oh my God!
text: Marty has noticed the newspaper which Doc is holding. Marty grabs it and reads.
scene_heading: INSERT — NEWSPAPER 35
text: “LOCAL YOUTH JAILED IN ATTEMPTED THEFT,” accompanied bya photo of MARTY
speaker_heading: JUNIOR.
dialog: 36
dialog: 36-A
speaker_heading: 36-B
text: Below that, “Youth Gang Denies complicity,” with picture of GRIFF and the punks.
text: MARTY shakes his head, horrified. 36
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, what's this supposed to mean?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It's what | brought you here to prevent. This is tomorrow's
dialog: newspaper. | just went forward a day to find out if you were
dialog: successful.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But this is aw ful!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (nods)
dialog: It gets worse. As a result of this, your daughter goes into a
dialog: state of severe depression and commits—
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: My daughter? | have a daughter? What does she do?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Never mind — you know too much already. It's all my fault. |
dialog: just assumed if we could get your son to say no to those
dialog: guys...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, he did say no. And just as he was gonna change his
dialog: mind, that's when | got into it. | wonder if it says anything
dialog: about—
text: Marty takes another look at the newspaper; this time, his eyes nearly bug out of his head.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, what did this headline say?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: “Local Youth Jailed In Attempted Theft.”
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, look again.
text: It now says “LOCAL YOUTHS JAILED FOR RECKLESS HO VERBOARDING.” Below are
text: pictures of GRIFF and the gang, but not Marty Junior. There’s also a picture of some property
text: damage to the Courthouse.
text: DOC looks at the story and pictures, then looks at the Courthouse at the actual property
text: damage. He pulls out the CARD BINOCULARS.
scene_heading: P.O.V. THRU BINOCULARS 36-A
text: An AUTOMATED DROID FAX-CAM PHOTOG RAPHER (with the newspaper logo on it) flies
text: down, lands and takes the very picture that will appear in this newspaper!
scene_heading: BACK TO SHOT 36-B
text: Suddenly, Doc has a revelation.
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Of course! The ripple effect! Time travel into the future is
dialog: always the extrapolation of current events of the immediate
dialog: present. In my case, | left this time at a moment before this
dialog: hoverboard incident took place — yet | returned after it
dialog: occurred. Just as the present affects the future, the future
text: reverberates back into the past.
dialog: 
dialog: And because this hoverboard incident has now occurred, Griff
dialog: now goes to jail: therefore, your son won't go with him tonight
dialog: and this robbery will never take place! And that’s why the
text: newspaper is now altered.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Kinda like that picture of me and Dave and Linda that kept
dialog: disappearing back in 1955...?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Precisely! Marty, we've succeeded! Not exactly as | planned,
dialog: but no matter: mission accomplished! Let's get Jennifer and
dialog: go home.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That's just it, Doc — the police took her away!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Great Scott, are you sure?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: About a minute before | found you.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Damn! Those cops were the reason | didn’t land the
dialog: DeLorean here. Some of the modifications I've made on it
dialog: aren't exactly street legal.
text: Doc uses a WRIST REMOTE CONTROL UNIT to pilot the DeLorean down from behind a
dialog: building.
scene_heading: EXT. NEARBY ON THE STREET 37*
text: OLD BIFF has been watching Marty and Doc... and now sees the DELOREAN descending. *
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: A flying DeLorean? | haven't seen one of those in 30 years...
text: Suddenly, Biff's face lights with recognition — as he realizes that he’s seen it before. His eyes
text: narrow with suspicion.
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN SQUARE — DOC AND MARTY 38
text: Doc continues piloting with the wristremote. Once the DMC lands, Doc uses the FUTABA
text: REMOTE CONTROL UNIT (from Twin Pines Mall) to drive the car over to them.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | think the cops said they were gonna take her home.
dialog: 39
dialog: 40
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Home? Great Scott! If anyone’s home who recognizes her —
dialog: you, or your family, and they traumatize her... or worse, if
text: Jennifer actually encounters her future self, the
dialog: consequences could be disastrous!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: DOC
text: The shock of coming face to face with oneself 30 years older
dialog: is enough to traum atize anyone. She would probably go into
dialog: shock — her heart could stop, she could drop dead and that
dialog: would create a time paradox which would unravel the very
text: fabric of the space-time continuum and destroy the entire
dialog: Universe.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Granted, that's the worst case scenario. The destruction
dialog: might in fact be very localized, limited to merely our own
dialog: galaxy.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (laughs uncom forta bly)
dialog: Oh, hey, well, that’s a relief.
text: Doc brings the DeLorean over to them.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (notices Marty’s silver bag)
dialog: What's in that bag?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: This ? Oh, nothing, just a souvenir... a book that looks like it
dialog: might be interesting...
text: Doc takes it, opens it and pulls out the book.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: “50 Years of Sports statistics.” Hardly recreational reading
dialog: material, Marty.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Okay, well, | figured it couldn't hurt to bring back a little info on
dialog: the future, you know, in case of a cash flow problem, I'd place
dialog: a few bets...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty, | didn’t invent time travel for financial gain...
text: BIFF is eavesdropping behind them and he reacts to this. 39
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Time travel...?
scene_heading: ON DOC AND MARTY 40
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (cont'd)
dialog: .... The intent here is to gain a clearer perception of humanity:
dialog: 41
dialog: 42
dialog: where we've been, where we're going, the pitfalls and the
dialog: possibilities, the perils and the promise... perhaps even an
dialog: answer to that universal question: W hy?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, hey, I'm all for that, Doc, but what's wrong with making a
dialog: few bucks on the side?
speaker_heading: DOC
text: Because the risks far outweigh any potential rewards.
text: Doc puts the book back inthe bag and tosses it into a nearby trash receptacle.
text: Marty sighs with disappointment as he sees his scheme of wealth lost.
text: Doc opens his gullwing door. EINSTEIN, Doc's dog, is in the car!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Move over, Einstein!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Einie! Where'd you come from, boy?
text: Doc and Marty, still with the hoverboard, climb into the DeLorean with the dog.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I'd left him here in a suspended animation kennel when | went
dialog: back to 1985 to bring you here. Einstein never knew | was
dialog: gone! We'll be home soon, boy. Just sit tight.
text: They take off.
scene_heading: ANGLE — TRASH CONTAINER 41
text: The silver bag with the Sports Book sits in the trash container. Now, a pair of hands rescue it:
speaker_heading: BIFF’S HANDS.
text: BIFF examines the book with a sinister smile, then looks up at the departing DeLorean.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: So, Doc Brown invented a time machine.
text: He spots a TAXI nearby, discharging a fare. Biff waves his cane and goes over to it.
speaker_heading: BIFF
speaker_heading: TAXI!
text: Biff climbs in.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Follow that DeLorean!
text: The cab flies off in pursuit.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HILLDALE HOUSING PROJECT — DUSK 42
text: Beyond a Sign, “Hilldale,” stretches a sprawl of identical cluster townhouses. Originally built in
dialog: 43
speaker_heading: 44
text: the 1980's as a “classy” yuppie development, the place is showing its seams.
text: The FLYING POLICE CAR lands and drives into the development.
scene_heading: EXT. TOWNHOUSE CLUSTER — DUSK/NIGHT 43
text: The POLICE CAR in parked outside of number 1131, “McFly.”
text: REESE and FOLEY are carrying the still unconscious JENNIFER to the front door.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Hilldale: they oughta tear this whole place down. Breeding
dialog: ground for tranks, Lo-bos and zipheads.
text: Foley rings the doorbell. No answer.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: They've gotidenti-pad. We could just take her in.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Are you kirgo? That's a violation of the Privacy Act. We could
dialog: get our crags numped! If we can't revive her, we leave her
dialog: here.
dialog: (gently slaps Jennifer's face)
dialog: Miss? Miss?
text: Jennifer starts to revive. She’s groggy and disoriented.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Uhhh...where am |?
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: You're home, Miss. You got a little tranked, but everything’s
dialog: fine. Can you walk?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: |—1 don’t know...
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Would you like us to take you inside?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Ohhh... okay.
text: Foley takes her hand and pushes her thumb to the ident-plate below the doorbell. The door
text: opens.
speaker_heading: COMPU-VOICE
dialog: Welcome home, Jennifer.
text: The cops help her inside.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM 44
text: They enter the darkened room.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Ma’am, you should reprogram. It’s dangerous to enter without
text: lights on.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Lights on?
dialog: In response to her words, LIGHTS automatically come on!
text: The room is furnished mostly with a lot of (old) items from the late ‘80s or early ‘90s — but
text: there are some more radical objects as well.
text: The police put Jennifer down on the sofa. She’s still not all here.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Just take iteasy and you'll be fine. And you be careful in the
dialog: future.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: The future...?
text: The cops head for the door.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: So long, Mrs. McFly.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: So long.
text: They exit and the door automatically closes behind them.
text: Suddenly, Jennifer sits up in disbelief.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Mrs. McFly?!?
text: She looks around the room.
text: There's a window, showing the grounds of a large estate outside — manicured lawn, gardens,
text: gazebo... The image seems a bit surreal because its DAYTIME.
text: STAIRS go up.
text: Jennifer goes to a bookcase and browses. On the shelf are a row of VID-BOOKS (a format yet
text: to be invented). There is a prerecorded copy of “A MATCH MADE IN SPACE.” The other titles
dialog: are handwritten and include:
dialog: “Wedding — Jennifer & Marty.”
dialog: “Family Vacations — 1995— 2005.”
dialog: “George & Lorraine 50th Anniversary”
dialog: “The Kids: Marty, Jr. & Marlene — Vol. 1, 2, 3.”
text: She takes the one labeled “wedding” and opens it. Inside the cover is an LCD screen which
text: starts playing back video tape of Marty and Jennifer walking down the aisle.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Oh my God!
text: In response, aGIRL'S VOICE calls down from upstairs.
speaker_heading: MARLENE (0.S.)
dialog: Mom? Is that you?
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
text: The voice sounds EXACTLY LIKE JENNIFER’S!
text: Jennifer reacts with alarm.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: I've gotta get out of here!
text: Jennifer quickly puts the vid-book back on the shelf and runs for the front door. She can't
text: figure out how to open it— there’s no door knob.
text: Suddenly, the DOORBELL RINGS.
text: Now FOOTSTEPS from upstairs... and a SHADOW...
speaker_heading: MARLENE (0.S.)
dialog: Mom? Mom?
text: Jennifer hides in the front closet and closes the louvered door. She can see out of it. Her jaw
text: drops and her eyes go wide as she sees:
text: MARLENE McFLY, 17, who looks like...
text: Well, if Marty was a gin, this might be her. Big breasts, and somewhat chunky, she looks like
dialog: she overdid it on the weight training. (She does have her mother’s hair, though!)
text: Marlene pushes the thumb pad by the front door: itopens.
text: ON JENNIFER watching from closet. 45
speaker_heading: MARLENE (0.S.)
dialog: Oh, hi, Grandma Lorraine.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE (O.S.)
dialog: Hi, sweetheart. | brought dinner. Are your folks home yet?
speaker_heading: MARLENE (0.S.)
dialog: Mom should be home any minute. Dad — who knows?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (realizes who this means)
dialog: “Mom...!”
speaker_heading: JENNIFER'S P.O.V. 46
text: of the activity at the front door: OLD LORRAINE, 77, has a bag/package of future take-out
dialog: food.
speaker_heading: MARLENE
dialog: Grandpa! You threw your back out again!
text: Indeed, OLD GEORGE, 77, ENTERS UPSIDE DOWN in a futuristic HARNESS! The brand
dialog: name: Ortho-lev.
speaker_heading: OLD GEORGE
dialog: Yes... playing slam ball.
text: Both Lorraine and George have white hair, and more wrinkles, but generally look healthy.
speaker_heading: MARLENE
dialog: l'll take care of this, Grandma.
text: Marlene takes the food from Lorraine and goes to the kitchen.
text: Lorraine looks at the window with the estate view: the IMAGE ROLLS — a vertical hold
text: problem. There's also video tearing at the top.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: Look, this window's still broken.
text: Lorraine picks up a remote control unit and operates it.
text: The window image changes to the SOUTH SEAS, then to the SWISS ALPS; then to NEW
text: YORK CITY at night. Finally the image goes off, and the REAL window view appears — the
text: side of the neighbor's townhouse with garbage cans.
speaker_heading: OLD GEORGE
dialog: Maybe we should buy them a new one. We can afford it.
text: JENNIFER cautiously opens the closet door.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: No, George, Marty would take that as an insult. He'd think you
dialog: were reminding him that he can't afford it.
speaker_heading: OLD GEORGE
dialog: | just want to help out.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: Well, you know Marty. He’s always so overly concerned about
dialog: what people think about him, what they say about him behind
dialog: his back. How many times have we heard it: “Mom, | can't let
dialog: ‘em think I'm cheap. | can't let em think I’m not with it.”
speaker_heading: OLD GEORGE
dialog: “| can’tlet ‘em think I’m chicken?”
text: They exchange a look.
text: Jennifer spots FRENCH DOORS in the DEN at the opposite end of the house. She steps out
text: of the closet and cautiously creeps that way, being careful to stay out of view of Lorraine and
dialog: George.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: George, that accident with the Rolls Royce was 30 years ago.
speaker_heading: OLD GEORGE
dialog: And Marty hasn't learned a thing. He still won’t admit that the
dialog: whole thing was his own fault. If Marty had just used a little
dialog: common sense, that accident would have never happened.
dialog: That accident started a chain reaction that sent Marty's life
text: straight down the toilet.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: You're right. The man in that Roll Royce wouldn't have
dialog: pressed charges or sued him, Marty wouldn't have broken his
dialog: hand, he wouldn't given up on his music...
speaker_heading: OLD GEORGE
dialog: And Marty wouldn't have spent all those years feeling sorry for
dialog: himself, complaining how life gave him sucha raw deal. He
dialog: just gave up.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: You're right, George. If not for that accident, Marty probably
dialog: would have made something of himself.
text: Now MARTY JUNIOR comes running down the stairs.
text: Jennifer tenses, concerned — she’s right outin the open!
text: Junior runs right past her, not even looking at her.
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: Hi, Mom.
text: Junior goes into the Den.
speaker_heading: COMPU-VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Welcome home, Marty, oh, master of the house, King of the
dialog: castle, Lord of the manor.
text: Jennifer reacts with a “you gotta be kidding” expression. Then, realizing she’s still out in the
text: open, she darts thru an open door into the BATHROOM.
text: She closes the door, leaving it open enough to peek out. The front door opens, and there's
text: OLD MARTY, 47, greying, a little tired, but still good looking. He wears a future business suit.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Hi, everybody, I'm home!
dialog: Aw, Dad, you threw your back out again. | really think you
dialog: should get that spine operation.
speaker_heading: OLD GEORGE
dialog: | know, | know, but who's got 3 extra hours to spend at the
dialog: hos pital?
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: How are things at work, Marty?
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Oh, same old, same old.
text: JENNIFER notices another door in the bathroom. She looks through it and sees the DEN
text: where MARTY JUNIOR is watching 8 DIFFERENT PROGRAMS AT ONCE on a LARGE
text: VIDEO WALL SCREEN — which sits slightly crooked on the wall.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Junior, dinner time.
speaker_heading: MARTY JUNIOR
dialog: But I’m watching TV!
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Well, get your glasses. We eat at the table when your
dialog: grandparents are here.
dialog: 47
dialog: 48
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
dialog: 51
dialog: 52
speaker_heading: MARTY JUNIOR
dialog: Aw, Dad, | can only watch 2 shows at once on my glasses!
text: Old Marty straightens out the tilted screen.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Yeah, you kids really have it tough. When | was your age, if |
dialog: wanted to watch 2 shows at once, | had to put 2 sets next to
dialog: each other.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 47
scene_heading: EXT. HILLDALE DEVELOPMENT ENTRANCE — NIGHT 48
text: The DELOREAN enters the townhouse development.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 49
scene_heading: EXT. MCFLY TOWNHOUSE — NIGHT 50
text: The DMC parks near the McFly townhouse.
text: Marty and Doc get out of the DMC.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: So | live in Hilldale? Great! They just built it! Everybody says
dialog: it's a real hip place to live! Way to go, McFly!
text: Doc has Jennifer's purse (which was left behind when he moved her). He puts it in front of
text: Einstein's nose.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: All right. Einie, pick up Jennifer's scent. You got it?
text: Einstein barks.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Good. Let's find her.
dialog: Marty: stay here. Change clothes. If | need you, I'Ilholler.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But, Doc—
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: We can't risk you running into yourself. C'mon, Einie.
text: Marty watches as Doc and Einstein head toward the townhouse.
scene_heading: EXT. HILLDALE DEVELOPMENT ENTRANCE — NIGHT 51
text: The TAXI now arrives at the entrance to the development.
scene_heading: INT. TAXI 52
text: BIFF sits in the back of the cab, clutching the silver book bag. His cane is beside him.
text: He spots the DeLorean a little distance away. Marty is beside it, changing clothes.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: You can let me off here.
speaker_heading: CAB DRIVER
dialog: (offers him a thumbplate)
dialog: That'll be $74.50. I'd be care ful in this neighborhood, old
dialog: timer.
scene_heading: 53 INT. TOWNHOUSE — NIGHT 53
text: The McFly family minus old Jennifer is at the dinner table.
text: Old Lorraine puts a little 4-inch PIZZA HUT box into a “Hydrator” and pushes a button.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: ...So | thought it would be nice if we threw a little party for him.
text: The Hydrator beeps; Lorraine opens it and pulls out a beautiful steaming 15-inch pizza.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Mom, before we plan a party for Uncle Joey, let's see if be
dialog: makes parole.
text: Old Lorraine serves the pizza.
text: Marty Junior and Marlene are both wearing video glasses. The glasses are opaque from the
text: outside, with LCD readouts showing what channel the viewer is watching.
text: Junior’s readout says “ESPN — Ch 211-D.” It's a football game, and Junior reacts to. it,
dialog: YELLING “Fumble! | can’t believe it! Take him outta the game!” etc.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: George, rotate your axis, please. It’s not good for your
dialog: digestion to eat while youre inverted.
text: Old George pushes a controlon his harness which turns him right side up.
text: JENNIFER, who can see the family from the bathroom, goes through the 2nd bathroom door
text: into the den, and creeps toward the French Doors.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Pass me a slice of the kelp, please.
speaker_heading: MARLENE
dialog: No, | don’t want to, so nump off!
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: Marlene! Don’t talk to your father like that!
speaker_heading: MARLENE
dialog: Grandma, I’m on the phone, okay?
text: Marlene’s glasses display says “Telephone mode.” Now Old Marty's beeper goes off. Red
text: lights also flash on the kids’ glasses.
speaker_heading: KIDS
dialog: (in unison)
dialog: Dad! Telephone!! It's Needles.
dialog: 53-A
speaker_heading: 54
dialog: 55
text: Old Marty checks his beeper, then gets up.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: l'll take it in the den.
text: He pauses at a mirror and adjusts his tie and checks his hair, then goes into the den.
text: Immediately, Jennifer has to go back into the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. THE DEN 53-A*
text: OLD MARTY ENTERS and pushes a remote controller.
text: The 8 image display is reduced to a small corner of the screen as the image of NEEDLES, 47,
text: appears in the center, atan office work station. To the side a computer readout with his vital
dialog: and personal statistics. It's video telephone.
speaker_heading: NEEDLES (VIDEO)
dialog: Hey, the Big M! How’s it hangin’, McFly?
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Hey, Needles.
scene_heading: EXT. AT THE DELOREAN 54
text: MARTY, now back in his 1985 clothes, impatiently looks in the direction Doc went. Should he
dialog: take a closer look or not?
text: Yeah. He quietly follows, leaving the DeLorean unattended and out of his view.
text: Imm ediately, BIF F, clutching the silver bag, comes up to the DeLorean, sees that the coast is
text: clear and opens the driver's side door.
scene_heading: INT. DEN 55
text: Old Marty continues his conversation with Needles while Jennifer watches from the bathroom.
speaker_heading: NEEDLES (VIDEO)
dialog: McF ly, what are you afraid of? If this thing works, it'll solve all
dialog: your financial problems.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: And if itdoesn’t work, | could get fired. It's illegal, Needles.
dialog: What if “the Jits” is monitoring?
speaker_heading: NEEDLES (VIDEO)
dialog: “The Jits'll” never find out. Come on, just stick your card in the
dialog: slot and I'llhandle it Unless you want everyone in the division
dialog: to think you're... chicken.
text: Marty’s blood rises. He tenses up.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Nobody calls me chicken!
speaker_heading: NEEDLES (VIDEO)
dialog: All right, prove it.
text: Marty defiantly takes out a CARD with BAR CODES and holds it up for Needles to see. Marty
text: then inserts it in a slot nextto the screen.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Here. Scan it! I’m in.
text: We hear an ELECTRONIC TONE, then Marty withdraws the card.
speaker_heading: NEEDLES
dialog: Thanks, McFly. See you at the plant tomorrow.
text: The screen blanks. As Marty turns to leave the room, there are some electronic tones and a
text: new image breaks in on the conversation: MR. FUJITSU, a Japanese man in his early 30's.
speaker_heading: FUJITSU (VIDEO)
dialog: McFly!!
text: Marty tums — he’s surprised and concerned.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Mr. Fujitsu, sir! Good evening, sir!
speaker_heading: FUJITSU (VIDEO)
dialog: McF ly, | was monitoring that scan you just interfaced. You're
dialog: terminated.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Term inated? But sir! It wasn’t my idea! Needles was behind it!
speaker_heading: FUJITSU (VIDEO)
dialog: And you cooperated. It was illegal and you knew it. You're
text: fired, McFly. Goodbye.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: But, sir—
speaker_heading: FUJITSU (VIDEO)
dialog: McFly: Read my fax!
text: The screen suddenly goes to a giant display of a piece of company stationary, addressed to
text: Marty, which says in big block letters, “YOU'RE FIRED!
text: Simultaneously, a copy comes out of the FAX UNIT in Marty's den!
text: An identical cop y comes out in the Fax machine in the bathroom! (There's a fax machine in
text: every room.) Jennifer pulls it out and looks at it in amazement.
text: Fujitsu “hangs up.” His image disappears and a “painting” appears: the “Art Channel” (which
text: broadcasts ever changing images of fam ous paintings).
text: Old Marty stares at his copy of the fax in disbelief.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.8.)
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Jennifer!!
text: Startled, Jennifer shoves the fax in her pocket and turns: DOC BROWN is in the bathroom
dialog: window.
dialog: 56
text: (In the back ground, we can see Old Lorraine also pulling a copy of the same fax from the unit
text: in the kitchen and reading it.)
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Go out the front door! I'll meet you there!
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: It won't open!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Push your thumb to the plate!
text: She nods, then creeps out the first door, keeping low as she goes toward the front door.
speaker_heading: OLD LORRAINE
dialog: Marty, what's the meaning of this fax?
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Believe me, Mom, it wasn’t my fault. | just always seem to get
dialog: a raw deal on everything.
text: Jennifer makes it to the front door. Next to itis another fax machine in which is another copy of
dialog: the “You're Fired” notice.
text: Jennifer is about to put her thumb to the thumb plate.
speaker_heading: COMPU-VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Welcome home, Jennifer.
text: The door opens and Jennifer FINDS HERSELF FACE TO FACE WITH HER OLDER SELF!
text: Young Jennifer's eyes widen, her jaw drops and she gasps at her future appearance:
text: At 47, the years have not been kind; booze has taken its toll, too. Puffy, wrinkled, circles under
text: the eyes, she reminds us of Lorraine at the beginning of part one.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Oh, God, I'm OLD!
text: Young Jennifer's eyes glaze over, her breathing shortens...
text: Old Jennifer reacts identically...
text: Then both of then simultaneously keel over forward in a faint: Young Jennifer falling out the
text: door, to the outside, Old Jennifer falling into the house.
text: DOC BROWN runs up justin time to catch the young Jennifer. He drags her out, and the front
text: door automatically closes.
text: CAMERA moves across the unconscious Old Jennifer. Then a pair of feet arrive: OLD
text: MARTY. As he examines his wife, MARLENE and JUNIOR also come over.
speaker_heading: OLD MARTY
dialog: Looks like your mother’s tranked again.
scene_heading: EXT. McFLY TOWNHOUSE — NIGHT 56
text: Doc carries the unconscious Jennifer.
dialog: 57
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty! Come quick!
text: Marty runs up and helps Doc carry Jennifer. They can’t yet see that the DELOREAN IS GONE.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Is she alive?
speaker_heading: DOC
text: She's in shock, as | predicted, but otherwise she seems
dialog: unhurt. Let's get her back to 1985, and then I’m going to
dialog: destroy the time machine.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Des troy it? But what about all that stuff about humanity,
dialog: finding out where we're going, and why?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: The risks are just too great — as this incident proves. And |
dialog: was behaving responsibly! Just imagine the danger if the time
dialog: machine were to fall into the wrong hands!
text: Now the DELOREAN pulls into the same parking place. The gullwing door opens and OLD
text: BIFF climbs out. He has a BRUISE on his forehead. He grabs his cane — it's stuck. He yanks,
text: we hear a “SNAP” and he frees it. He hobbles away, OUT OF FRAME.
text: Doc and Marty now approach with Jennifer.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: No, Marty, time traveling is too dangerous. It's time for me to
dialog: devote myself to studying the other great mystery of the
dialog: Universe: women.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, if you can solve that one, let me know.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSERT — TIME DISPLAYS 57
text: as the “DESTINATION TIME” is entered: October 26, 1985. (We might notice that “Last Time
dialog: Departed” is November 12, 1955.)
scene_heading: INT. THE DELOREAN 58
text: Marty sits in the DMC with the unconscious Jennifer on his lap. Einstein is behind them,
text: chewing ona SILVER BAG.
text: Doc is entering the data.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: We'll come back after dark. The less we're seen, the better.
dialog: Einie, get that junk out of your mouth.
text: Doc pulls it out of the dog’s mouth.
scene_heading: EXT. THE DELOREAN — NIGHT 59
text: The DeLorean pulls out, then its wheels drop down into the flying mode, and it blasts off!
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 62
dialog: 201
dialog: 202
dialog: 203
dialog: 204
text: OLD BIFF sees it go, then he clutches his chest in pain and collapses.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 60
scene_heading: INT. FLYING DELOREAN — NIGHT 61
text: The DeLorean is flying through clouds. Doc makes his final adjustments.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Altitude, 7000 feet. That should be high enough. Marty, Einie,
dialog: brace yourselves for temporal displacement!
text: Doc hits the accelerator and the speedometer rockets up to 88!
text: The flux capacitor glows brightly...
scene_heading: THRU THE WINDSHIELD P.O.V. 62
text: FLOATING LANE MARKERS can be seen — then the flux capacitor discharges a burst of
text: intense white light, the DeLorean rocks, and the lane markers are gone. All we see is night,
text: and distant lights below.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Did we make it? Are we back?
text: Suddenly, there’s an INCREDIBLE ROAR — a747 THUNDERS RIGHT OVER THEM,
text: buffeting them and nearly wiping them out!
text: They watch it depart through the windshield.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: We're back.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: (NOTE: Scene numbers 62—200 are reserved)
scene_heading: EXT. THE FLYING DELOREAN — NIGHT 201
text: The flying DMC descends to a 1985 RESIDENTIAL STREET. Its wheels fold down, itlands,
text: and keeps driving.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 202
scene_heading: EXT. JENNIFER'S HOUSE — NIGHT 203
text: The mailbox has “The Parkers” on it.
text: WIDER — revealing the DeLorean idling in the driveway. 204
text: Doc and Marty are carrying the unconscious Jennifer toward a HAMMOCK in the yard.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Let's put her inthe hammock.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But she left from my house.
dialog: 205
dialog: 206
speaker_heading: DOC
text: True, but when she revives here at her own house, and it's
text: dark, the disorientation will help convince her that it was all a
dialog: dream.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Okay, you're the Doc.
text: They put her in the hammock. Jennifer remains asleep.
text: Marty looks at the house curiously, as if something's wrong. There are SECURITY BARS on
dialog: all the windows.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | must be crazy. | don’t remember bars on these windows.
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Oh, well, | guess—
dialog: (sniffs the air)
dialog: Jeez, something really stinks!
text: Doc sniffs and makes a face.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Must be a fire somewhere. We'd better get going.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: We're just gonna leave her?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: She'll be fine. I'll take you home, you can change clothes and
dialog: come back for her in your truck.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You're the Doc.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. LION GATES OF LYON ESTATES — NIGHT 205
text: The DMC drives through the familiar Lions gates. The street is strewn with trash — more than
dialog: usual.
scene_heading: EXT. MCFLY HOME — NIGHT 206
text: Marty gets out of the DeLorean.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: If you need me, I'llbe back at my lab, dismantling this thing.
dialog: Let me know if you have any trouble convincing her it was all
dialog: a dream.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Or a nightmare.
text: Doc drives off.
text: Marty cocks his head — it sounds like there’s GUNFIRE in the distance.
text: He walks up to the front door. It's locked.
dialog: 207
dialog: 208
text: He takes out his door key and tries to open it — but the key won't fit. Marty fiddles with it, to no
dialog: avail.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What the hell?
text: He shrugs, then goes around to the side of the house. There’s alarge PADLOCK on the gate *
text: which Marty has never seen before. He shrugs, climbs up on a garbage can and jumps over
dialog: the gate.
text: MARTY goes to his bedroom window and tries it: it opens. He climbs in — then loses his 207
dialog: balance and falls.
text: Immediately, he’s greeted by a SCREAM!
scene_heading: INT.BEDROOM 208
text: Marty has fallen into a BED with a 12 YEAR OLD BLACK GIRL! She keeps SCREAMING!
dialog: Marty is shocked!
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: MOMMA! DAD! HELP!!!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, who are you? W hat are doing in my—room...?
text: Marty suddenly realizes that this is NOT HIS ROOM. Everything's different — it’s a girl's room.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: HELP!!! Daddy, help!!! *
text: She starts throwing things at a totally confused Marty. Now the door bursts open and her
text: PARENTS rush in: DAD has a BASEBALL BAT! With them is HAROLD, aged 7.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Freeze, sucker!
text: Marty is terrified! He raises his hands.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Okay, take it easy. | don’t want any trouble.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Well, you got trouble now, you no good trash! What are you
dialog: doing in here with my daughter?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Nothing! Its alla mistake! I'm in the wrong house!
speaker_heading: HAROLD
dialog: Whoop him, Dad! He’s lying!
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Shut up, Harold.
dialog: (to his daughter)
dialog: Loretta — did he touch you?
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: He jumped on me!
dialog: 209
dialog: 210-
dialog: 212
dialog: 212-A
dialog: 213
dialog: 214
dialog: 215
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Please, I’m sorry! | just made a mistake!
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Damn right, you made a mistake!
text: He swings the bat at Marty!
text: Marty dodges and Dad's swing destroys some of his daughter's possessions!
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Dad, stop! You're breakin’ my stuff!
text: Dad takes another swing: He again misses Marty and takes out more of Loretta’s things!
text: Loretta starts hitting her father.
text: Marty runs out of the room.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT OF THE HOUSE 209
text: Marty runs out the front door. He pauses at the street to look at the house. It sure seems like
dialog: his house.
text: Suddenly, DAD comes out brandishing the bat, his FAMILY behind him. *
text: Marty starts running.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: That's right, you keep runnin’, sucker! And you tell that white
dialog: trash realty company that | ain’t selling, you hear? We ain't
dialog: gonna be forced out!
text: Marty takes off down the street.
text: Yes, it's definitely GUNFIRE in the distance.
dialog: 210-
speaker_heading: OMITTED 212
scene_heading: EXT. ANOTHER STREET — NIGHT 212-A
text: MARTY walks along, confused.
text: A car drives by, full of SCREAMING KIDS throwing beer bottles into the street.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It's gotta be the wrong year.
text: Marty notices that the house he’s in front of has a NEWSPAPER on the PORCH.
scene_heading: EXT. ON THE PORCH 213
text: Marty runs up on the porch, picks up the paper and opens it. He checks the date.
scene_heading: INSERT — NEWSPAPER (HILL VALLEY TELEGRAPH) 214
dialog: The date is “Saturday, October 26, 1985.”
text: MARTY is stunned. 215*
dialog: 215-A
speaker_heading: 215-B
dialog: 216
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 1985? It can't be!
text: There's an offscreen sound of aPUMP SHOTGUN COCKING, and a gun barrel is shoved
text: against Marty’s head.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: So you're the son of a bitch who's been stealing my
dialog: newspapers!
text: The voice is familiar. Marty tums and finds himself facing
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: MR. STRICKLAND!
text: Yes, it's STRICKLAND, and he looks even meaner than we remember, particularly because of
text: a large, ugly KNIFE SCAR across his face. He’s wearing a FLAK JACKET over his bathrobe.
text: Strickland looks at him without recognition.
speaker_heading: STRICKLAND
dialog: Do | know you?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yes, sir, it's me, Marty! Marty McFly!
speaker_heading: STRICKLAND
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Marty McF ly! You know, from High School! You're always
dialog: giving me tardy slips. You just gave me detention last week.
speaker_heading: STRICKLAND
dialog: Last week? Now | know youre lying. There hasn’tbeen a
dialog: High School in Hill Valley for 6 years!
dialog: On Marty's astonished reaction, we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: HILL VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL... 215A*
text: ...that is, what's left of it. It's been BURNED and FIREBOMBED! A substantial portion of it is in
text: RUINS and most of what's still standing is blackened with soot and ash. The windows are
text: boarded up, and the whole place is surrounded by a BARBED WIRE FENCE.
text: MARTY stares at it in disbelief. 215B*
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: This is nuts.
text: He shakes his head, then walks on, staggered. We hold on the burned out school, then we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: MARTY on the run again as he now arrives at 216
dialog: 217
scene_heading: EXT. COURTHOUSE SQUARE — NIGHT 217
text: The sign, “Hill Valley — A Nice Place to Live” is riddled with bullet holes.
text: Marty steps past it and becomes even more shocked as he discovers...
text: The Courthouse has been converted intoa GIGANTIC LAS VEGAS STYLE HIGH RISE
text: HOTEL COMPLEX! It’s garish, overdone, outrage ous, and it’s called “BIFF TANNEN’S.
text: PLEASURE PARADISE — Hotel — Resort — Casino — Girls.” The huge flashing lit sign
text: includes an animated PORTRAIT OF BIFF lighting a cigar with a $100 bill!
text: The place is doing tremendous business. MARTY is dumbfounded.
text: BIKERS rev their Harleys and drag up and down the streets.
text: In the distance, large INDUSTRIAL SMOKESTACKS spew thick pollution into the night sky.
text: Marty sees that the whole square is now a sleazy nightmare of BARS, ADULT BOOK
scene_heading: STORES, PAWN SHOPS, BAIL BONDSMEN and PORNO THEATERS.
text: TWO BOUNCERS, who we may recognize as 2 of Biff's boys from 1955, MATCH and 3-D *
text: (who now wears garish jeweled 3-D glasses), are throwing a young MAN out of the Paradise
dialog: Hotel.
speaker_heading: 3-D
dialog: And don’t ever come beggin’ for drinks in here again! Friggin’
dialog: lush!
text: The drunken fellow picks himself up off the pavement.
speaker_heading: DRUNK
dialog: Hey, can’tyou guys take a joke?
text: Marty reacts: there's something VERY familiar about this character...
text: The drunk pulls a pint bottle out of his ragged coat, drains what's left in it, and throws it at the
dialog: hotel.
text: Marty gasps as he realizes who it is:
text: DAVE McFLY, 22, his own brother! Red nose, puffy face, Dave is really plastered.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Dave!
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Marty! Hey, bro, what's happening! Hey, you're lookin’ kinda
dialog: ragged there — what, did you sleep in your clothes again last
dialog: night?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Dave, my God, what's happened to you? What's happened to
dialog: the town? What's going on around here?
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Oh, all this? It’s the Biker’s Convention. So, Marty, when’d you get back?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Back? Back from where?
dialog: 218-
dialog: 221
dialog: 221-A
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Well, if you don’t know, how do you expect me to tell you?
dialog: (laughs loudly; then con spira torially)
dialog: Hey, let's go have a few, huh? You got money, don’t ya?
text: Dave pulls him toward a tavern.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What are you talkin’ about, Dave, I’m under age!
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Under age? Quit kiddin’ around! You been over 14 since —
dialog: since — well, since your 14th birthday!
text: Dave roars at this “joke.”
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 14? Listen, Dave, | gotta find Mom and Dad.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Dad? You gotta find Dad? That's sick, Marty, that’s really sick.
dialog: What's the matter with you, anyway? And since when are you
dialog: and Mom on speaking terms again?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Speaking terms? Look, do you know where she is? Can you
dialog: tell me where | can find Mom?
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Same place as usual, | guess. In there.
text: Dave points to BIFF TANNEN’S PARADISE MOTEL. Marty stares at the hotel, confused.
text: He turns back to Dave, but Dave is already going into the bar. Martyis about to stop him, but
text: then decides not to. He again looks at Biffs Hotel.
text: Marty approaches it.
text: Adjacent to the hotel is the BIFF TANNEN MUSEUM. Marty takes a look at the outside display
text: area in front of the ticket window.
dialog: 218-
speaker_heading: OMITTED 221
scene_heading: EXT. MUSEUM DISPLAY AREA 221-A
text: Out front is Biff's BLACK ROADSTER that he drove in 1955, restored and cherry.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (0.8.)
dialog: ...of course, we've all heard the legend. But who is the man?
dialog: Inside, you will leam how Biff Tannen became one of the
dialog: richest and most powerful men in America!
dialog: Marty tums:
text: A promo film for the museum is running on a large VIDEO MONITOR.
text: Marty moves in closer and watches...
scene_heading: 221-B_ PROMO FILM FOR THE BIFF TANNEN MUSEUM 221B*
text: A photo montage, in color and black-and-white, promoting the exhibits inside, including stills of
text: BABY BIFF, BUFORD TANNEN, BIFF posing with celebrities...
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: Learn the amazing history of the Tannen family, starting with
text: his grandfather, Buford “Mad Dog” Tannen, fastest gun in the
text: west. See Biff’s humble beginnings and how a trip to the race
dialog: track on his 21st birthday made him a millionaire overnight...
text: Share in the excitement of a fabulous winning streak that
dialog: earned him the nickname, “The Luckiest Man on Earth.”
text: While Marty watches, a WOMAN in the ticket booth notices him, eyes him curiously, then picks
text: up a phone.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: Learn how Biff parlayed that lucky winning streak into the vast
dialog: empire called “Biffco.” Witness how Biff changed the face of
text: Hill Valley, making it a center of industrial growth. Discover
dialog: how in 1969 BIFF successfully lobbied to legalize gambling
dialog: throughout the land, to put the dream he had realized into the
dialog: reach of allAmericans. Marvel at Biff's ongoing relationships
dialog: with the rich and famous. Meet the women who shared in his
dialog: passion as he searched for true love. And relive Biffs
dialog: happiest moment as in 1973 he realized his lifelong romantic
dialog: dream by marrying his High School Sweetheart, Loraine
dialog: Baines McFly.
text: There are images from the wedding with Biff and Lorraine coming out of a church.
speaker_heading: BIFF
speaker_heading: (on VIDEO)
dialog: 3rd time’s a charm!
text: Biff kisses her fullon the mouth.
speaker_heading: 221C*
dialog: 221-C MARTY goes nuts!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: NO!!! NO!!!
text: He steps back from the monitor, enraged and shocked.
text: Suddenly, A HAND clamps down on his shoulder: Marty finds himself facing 3 thugs:
text: SKINHEAD, MATCH and 3-D — Biff's cohorts from 1955.
speaker_heading: SKINHEAD
dialog: Hold on there, squirt. You're comin’ with us: upstairs.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Let me go, dam mit!
speaker_heading: MATCH
dialog: Look, we can do this the easy way or the hard way.
text: Marty struggles. 3-D pulls out a BLACKJACK and clubs him! Many goes out like a light.
dialog: 222
speaker_heading: 3-D
dialog: (shrugs, smiles)
dialog: The easy way.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DARKENED BEDROOM — NIGHT 222
text: MARTY is lying in bed, lit by ambient light from a window. FEMALE HANDS place a cold
text: compress on his forehead. Marty groans and stirs.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mom? Is that you?
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Ssshh. Just relax, Marty. You’ve been asleep for alm ost 2
dialog: hours.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Ohhh, what a horrible nightmare... it was terrible.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Well, you're safe and sound now. Back home on the good old
dialog: 27th floor.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 27th floor??
text: Marty sits up in horror as Lorraine sits down beside him and turns on the bedside lamp
text: revealing a very different LORRAINE: At 47, she’s made up like Tammy Bakker, with an
text: OUTRAGEOUS WIG, lots of jewels and an expensive, glittering gown — low cut, emphasizing
text: her cleavage: breast implants have given her a very ample bust.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: MOM! You're so — so — big!
text: She puts a cigarette in a garish holder and lights up.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Everything's going to be fine, Marty. Are you hungry? We can
dialog: call room service...
text: Marty looks around at the garishly decorated bedroom. The large picture window shows that
dialog: we're 15 stories up: this is the PENTHOUSE of the Paradise.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: | forgot, you haven't seen the penthouse since we
dialog: redecorated...
text: From outside, we heara MALE VOICE.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.8.)
dialog: Lorraine? Where are you?
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: It's your father!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: My father?
speaker_heading: 223 BIFF 223
text: BIFF, 48, kicks open the bedroom door. He's dressed in a silk suit, with showy jewelry and
text: chains. His THUGS are with him.
text: Biff glares at Marty.
text: Marty is absolutely shocked.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: My father? *
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: You're supposed to be in Switzerland, you little son of a bitch!
dialog: Did you get kicked out of another boarding school? Dammit,
dialog: Lorraine, do you know how much perfectly good dough I've
dialog: blown on this no good kid of yours? On all 3 of ‘em?
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: What the hell do you care? We can afford it! The least we can
dialog: do with all that money is make a better life for our children!
text: Lorraine pours herself a glass of scotch and drains it.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Marty’s your kid, not mine, and all the money in the world
dialog: wouldn't do jackshit for that lazy bum! He's a butthead, just
dialog: like his old man was!
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Don't you dare speak that way about George! You're not even
dialog: half the man he was!
text: Biff glares at her, then slaps her.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Never talk to me like that, you hear me? Ever!
text: Marty charges Biff, but Biff's boys restrain him.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: (to Marty)
dialog: Always the little hothead, huh?
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Dammit, Biff, that's it I'm leaving.
text: Lorraine heads for the door.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Sure, walk out And I'll cut you off — you and your kids.
text: Lorraine hesitates.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: | can get Dave's probation revoked and he'll have to go to
dialog: prison — maybe he'll even end up sharing a cell with your
dialog: brother Joey. And Linda — I'll close her accounts and she can
dialog: settle her debts with the bank all by herself. And Marty, well—
dialog: 224
dialog: 225
text: Biff storms out.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Okay, Biff, you win. I'll... stay.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Damn right, you'll stay.
dialog: (to Marty)
dialog: As for you, I'llbe back up here in an hour. So you'd better not
dialog: be...
text: Marty tums to his mother in disbelief, his eyes full of unasked questions. Lorraine looks away
text: from him, ashamed.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: | had it coming, Marty. | was wrong. He was right.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mom, what are you saying? You're actually defending him?
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: He's my husband, and he take. care of all of us, and he
dialog: deserves our respect.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Your husband? Respect? How can he be your husband? How
dialog: could you leave Dad for him?
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Leave Dad? Marty, are you feeling all right?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No! I'm not feeling all right! | don’t understand one damned
dialog: thing that’s going on around here and why nobody can give
dialog: me a simple straight answer!
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: They must have really hit you over the head hard.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mom, | just want to know one thing. Where's my father?
dialog: Where's George McF ly?
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Marty, George — your father — is in the same place he's
dialog: been for the past 12 years: Oak Park Cemetery.
dialog: On Marty’s expression of horror, we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. OAK PARK CEMETERY — NIGHT 224
text: Wind whips through the twisted dead trees, casting spooky moonlit shadows across the
text: tombstones. MARTY runs wildly through the graveyard, reading tombstones, until he finds
speaker_heading: GEORGE'S TOMBSTONE 225
scene_heading: “IN LOVING MEMORY, GEORGE DOUGLAS McFLY, April 1, 1936 — March 15, 1973.”
dialog: 226
dialog: 226-A
dialog: 227
dialog: 228
speaker_heading: MARTY 226
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 1973! NOH!!!
text: (drops to his knees, sobbing)
dialog: Please, God, no! This can’t be happening!
text: A SHADOW falls across Marty — a human shadow, coming up from behind.
speaker_heading: DOC (0.S.)
dialog: I'm afraid it is happening, Marty, all of it.
dialog: Marty tums. It's Doc.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: When | learned about your father, | figured you'd come here.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Then you know what happened to him? You know what
dialog: happened on...
dialog: (checks date on tombstone)
dialog: ..-March 15, 1973?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Yes, Marty. |know.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: OMITTED 226A*
scene_heading: INSERT — NEWSPAPER (HILL VALLEY TELEGRAPH) 227
text: A library bound volume of local newspapers, open to March 16, 1973.
text: “GEORGE MCFLY MURDERED!
text: “Author shot dead in apparent holdup enroute to receive book award.
text: Police baffled, search for witnesses.”
text: A photo of George McF ly accompanies the story.
scene_heading: INT. DOC’S LAB — NIGHT 228
text: MARTY is reading it while Doc explains. They're in Doc's lab which is ashambles: it's been
text: vandalized, windows are boarded up, and the scene is lit by candles.
text: The DeLorean is parked in the garage, and EINSTEIN is here, too.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: | went to the public library to try to make sense out ofall the
dialog: madness. The place was boarded up, shut down. So! broke
dialog: in and borrowed some newspapers.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But, Doc, howcan all this be happening? | mean, it's like
dialog: we're inhell or something.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: No, it’s Hill Valley, although | can’timagine hell being much
text: worse. The continuum has been disrupted, creating a new
dialog: temporal event sequence resulting in this alternate re ality —
dialog: alternate to us, but reality for everyone else.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: English, Doc.
text: Doc hands him the SILVER BOOK BAG from the future. *
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Recognize this? It's the bag the sports book came in. | know
dialog: because the receipt was still inside.
text: Doc shows him the receipt.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: | found them in the time machine along with this:
text: Doc shows him the FIST ornament from Old Biffs cane.
scene_heading: 229 INSERT — THE FIST ORNAMENT 229
text: Engraved on it is “Biff H. Tannen.”
dialog: 230 BACK TO SHOT 230
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: This was the top part of Biff’s cane — in the future. And you
dialog: found itin the DeLorean?
speaker_heading: DOC
text: Correct. It was in the time machine because Biff was in the
text: time machine, with the Sports Almanac.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Holy shit!
text: In the back ground, Doc’s automatic DOG FOOD MACHINE, attached to a car battery, *
text: activates and dispenses Einstein's dinner.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You see, while we were in the future, Biff got the sports book,
dialog: stole the time machine, went back in time and gave the book
dialog: to himself at some point in the past! Look....
text: Doc shows Marty another newspaper. “HV Man Wins Big At Races!” There's a PHOTO OF
text: BIFF receiving his money at the pay window.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It says right here that Biff made his first million betting on a
dialog: horse race in 1958. He wasn't just lucky: he knew because he
dialog: had all the race results in the Almanac! That's how he made
text: his entire fortune! Look at his pocket with the magnifying
dialog: glass...
dialog: Marty does so.
speaker_heading: 231
dialog: 232
dialog: 232-A
speaker_heading: 232-B
scene_heading: INSERT — NEWSPAPER PHOTO
text: Sticking out of Biff's pocket can be seen the top part of the ALMANAC!
dialog: BACK TO SHOT
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That bastard stole my idea! Doc, he must have overheard me
dialog: when | told you about—
dialog: (realization)
dialog: This whole thing's my fault If | hadn't bought that book, none
dialog: of this would have happened.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Well, that’s all in the past.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You mean in the future.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Whatever, it demonstrates precisely how time travel can be
dialog: misused and why the time machine must be destroyed... after
dialog: we straighten all of this out.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Right! We've gotta go back to the future and stop Biff from
dialog: ever stealing the time machine!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: We can't — because if we travelinto the future from this point
dialog: in time, it would be the future of this reality, in which Biff is
dialog: wealthy and married to your mother, and in which this has
dialog: happened to me.
text: Doc shows him another newspaper from 1983.
speaker_heading: INSERT — NEWSPAPER
dialog: BACK TO SHOT
text: Marty is horrified.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: No, Marty, our only chance to repair the presentis in the past
text: — at the point where the time line skewed into this tangent.
dialog: Somehow, we must find out the specific circumstances of
dialog: how, where, and when young Biff got his hands on that S ports
dialog: Almanac.
text: Marty looks at the 2 newspapers and fills with resolve.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: VlLask him.
text: Headline: “EMMETT BROWN COMMITTED. Crack pot Inventor Declared Legally Insane.”
text: There's a picture of Doc in a strait jacket. (There's also another article: ‘NIXON TO SEEK
dialog: 5TH TERM. Vows to End Vietnam W ar by 1985.”)
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 231
dialog: 232
dialog: 232-A
speaker_heading: 232-B
scene_heading: 233 INT. BIFF’'S PENTHOUSE — NIGHT 233
text: BIFF is in a Jacuzzi with 2 SHOWGIRLS while watching “A Fistful of Dollars” on a big screen
dialog: TV.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Great flick. Great friggin’ flick.
text: Suddenly, the screen goes black.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hey, what the hell—?
text: MARTY steps forward with the remote controller.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Party’s over, Biff.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: You! What are you doing here? How the hell did you get in
dialog: here, anyway? How'd you get past my security downstairs?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | managed.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Well, you got just 10 seconds to get your ass the hell outta
dialog: here or you're gonna have to be carried out.
text: Biff picks up a nearby phone.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: There's a little matter | need to talk to you about.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Money, right? W ell, forget it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Not money, no.
dialog: (a beat, then delib erate ly)
dialog: Gray’s Sports Almanac.
text: Biff stops and stares at Marty very intently.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You know what I'm talking about it's a book, paperback,
text: silver cover and jacket, with -----. — letters.
text: Biff puts the phone down.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: You heard him, girls: party's over.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: A-234 CLOSE ON A MATCHBOOK A-234
dialog: “Biff Tannen’s Pleasure Paradise.” It's a matchbook for the Hotel.
dialog: 234
scene_heading: INT. PENTHOUSE — BIFF’S PRIVATE OFFICE — NIGHT
text: MARTY is examining the matchbook, which was picked up from a table in BIFF’S PRIVATE
text: OFFICE, which is plushly (and garishly) furnished.
text: BIFF, now clad in a silk monogrammed robe, pours himself a Scotch.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: “Biff's Pleasure Paradise.” Very cute.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Starttalkin’, kid. What else do you know about that book?
text: Marty pockets the matchbook.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: First you tell me how you got it. How, where, when...
text: Biff stares at him, then smiles slyly.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: All right.
text: Biff gets up and goes to an OIL PORTRAIT of himself. It's hinged — he opens it, revealing a
text: WALL SAFE with 3 combination locks.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: November 12, 1955. That was when.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 1955?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: It was at school, at this dance.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The Enchantment Under the Sea Dance?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: How do you know about that?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, uh, my father told me about that dance... uh, before he
dialog: died.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Well, there | was, mindin’ my own business, and this crazy old
dialog: codger with acane calls me over. He says he’s my distant
dialog: relative; | don't know ifhe is, he doesn’t even look like me. So
dialog: he says, “How would you like to be rich?” | says “sure,” so he
dialog: lays this book on me.
text: Biff opens the safe and pulls outa smaller fireproof airtight SEALED CONTAINER. He unlocks
text: it, revealing one item inside: the SPORTS ALMANAC. It’s 30 years older, yellowed, stained,
text: and worn. It no longer has the dust jack et.
text: He lets Marty have a look at it.
dialog: 234
dialog: 236
dialog: 236
dialog: 237
dialog: 238
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: (cont'd)
dialog: He says this book’ll tell me the outcome of every sporting
dialog: event till the end of the century. All | have to do is bet onthe
dialog: winner and I'll never lose. Naturally, | think he’s full of it. So |
dialog: say, what's the catch? And he says, no catch. Just keep it a
dialog: secret. Then he says “Biff Tannen, you're one lucky guy.”
dialog: After that, he disappeared and | never saw him again.
text: Biff takes the book back from Marty and locks it in the safe.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Oh, he told me one more thing. He said, someday a crazy
dialog: wild-e yed scientist or a kid may show up asking about this
dialog: book. And if that ever happens...
text: Biff pulls a .38 REVOLVER out of his desk drawer and aims it at Marty.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Funny, | never thought it would be you...
text: Marty gulps.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, well, you're forgetting one thing — Hey, look!
text: Biff falls for it and looks; Marty grabs Biff's scotch and throws it in his face!
text: Marty bolts.
text: BIFF FIRES a few shots, but Marty’s outta there! Biff picks up a phone.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Marty McF ly’s on his way down. Take care of him:
dialog: permanently.
text: Then Biff chases after Marty.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 236
scene_heading: INT. PENTHOUSE CORRIDOR 236
text: Marty runs into the corridor, past 2 (down) ELEVATORS and through door marked “STAIRS.”
text: He runs up.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 237
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL ROOF — NIGHT 238
text: MARTY comes out onto the roof and runs to the edge. It’s an eerie environment, with the
text: colored light from the hotel sign and the weird smokey pollution that wafts through the sky.
text: Marty looks down: no escape.
text: Now BIFF comes out onto the roof, gun in hand, smiling as be approaches Marty.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Go ahead, kid. Jump. A suicide’ll be nice and neat.
dialog: 300
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, and what if | don’t?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: (raises the gun)
dialog: Lead poisoning.
text: Marty looks down. He’s scared.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: And what happens to you when the police match the bullet up
dialog: to that gun?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Kid, | own the police. Besides, they couldn't match up the
dialog: bullet that killed your old man.
text: Marty is shocked at this revelation.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: (chuckles)
dialog: | suppose it's poetic justice: 2 McFlys with the same gun.
text: Biff cocks the gun.
text: Then, Marty jumps off the roof!
text: Biff is amazed.
text: He runs to the edge and looks down...
text: Suddenly, MARTY RISES UP, STANDING ON THE HOOD OF THE FLYING DELOREAN!
text: Before Biff can react...
text: DOC throws open the gullwing door and cracks Biff in the face!
text: Biff falls backward.
text: Marty climbs into the DeLorean, closes the door, and they fly off
text: Biff justlays there, out cold.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: (NOTE: Scene numbers 239 to 299 are reserved.)
scene_heading: EXT. — NIGHT SKY 300
dialog: Quiet. Peaceful.
text: Suddenly, 3 staccato sonic booms erupt and the FLYING DELOREAN appears out of
dialog: nowhere!
text: It swoops down, then its wheels fold down as it goes into its landing mode. There is frost on it. *
text: The DeLorean descends and lands behind the 1955 LYON ESTATES BILLBOARD (“Live in
dialog: the home of tomorrow... Today!”}
dialog: 301-
dialog: 305
dialog: 306
dialog: 306-A
speaker_heading: 306-B
speaker_heading: 306-C
speaker_heading: 306-D
speaker_heading: 306-F
speaker_heading: 306-G
speaker_heading: 306-H
speaker_heading: 306-J
speaker_heading: 306-K
speaker_heading: 306-L
speaker_heading: 306-M
speaker_heading: 306-N
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: OMITTED
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL GYM — DANCE (EXISTING FOOTAGE) — NIGHT
text: “Enchantment Under The Sea’ is in full swing, with Marvin Berry and the Starlighters playing
dialog: “Night Train.”
text: MARTY, wearing a black leather jacket and hat, is keeping a low profile behind the
text: refreshment table as he looks around the gym. (He has a pair of 1985 mini-binoculars .)
text: GEORGE is at one end of the gym.
text: MR. STRICKLAND is also here, wandering around.
speaker_heading: OMITTED
text: YOUNG BIFF AND HIS GANG are also here, ogling several GIRLIE MAGAZINES, laughing
text: and slapping each other.
text: MARTY reacts upon seeing Biff. He pulls out a 1989 walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yo, Doc! Come in!
speaker_heading: INTERCUT WITH
scene_heading: EXT. LYON ESTATES BILLBOARD — NIGHT
text: DOC has the other walkie-talkie and responds to Marty.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: | read you, Marty, over.
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: | just spotted young Biff, but no sign of Old Biff yet.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Then don’t let young Biff out of your sight. When the old man
dialog: finds him, you'll be there.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Check, Doc. Over and out.
text: Marty puts the walkie-talkie in his pocket and continues watching BIFF AND THE BOYS.
text: They surreptitiously pass a bottle of booze around.
text: Skinhead notices that STRICKLAND is eyeing them suspiciously from across the gym. He
text: nudges Biff and points this out.
text: Biff looks over at Strickland, then says something to the guys.
text: They all EXIT through the FRONT DOOR.
text: STRICKLAND has seen this. He’s suspicious.
text: MARTY has seen this also. He heads for the same exit door.
dialog: 301-
dialog: 305
dialog: 306
dialog: 306-A,
speaker_heading: 306-B
speaker_heading: 306-C
speaker_heading: 306-D
speaker_heading: 306-F
speaker_heading: 306-G
speaker_heading: 306-H
speaker_heading: 306-J
speaker_heading: 306-K
speaker_heading: 306-L
speaker_heading: 306-M
speaker_heading: 306-N
dialog: 307
dialog: 308
dialog: 308-A
speaker_heading: 308-B
speaker_heading: 308-C
speaker_heading: DELETED 307
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL 308
text: MARTY comes outside and looks around, while continuing to stayin the shadows and out of
dialog: vision.
text: He goes down steps to a landing and he spots...
text: BIFF AND THE BOYS loitering on the steps on the next landing below with their magazines, 308-A
text: passing the bottle around.
text: 3-D finishes the booze and hands the empty bottle to Biff.
speaker_heading: 3-D
dialog: Drink up, Biff!
text: Biff puts the bottle to his lips, then sees he’s been shortchanged.
text: The guys laugh.
text: Biff gives 3-D a slap.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: That's so funny, | forgot to laugh. Now go get another one!
speaker_heading: MATCH
dialog: Ain't you comin’, Biff?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: I'm readin’!
text: The guys head off together around to the back of the building.
text: Biff continues paging through his magazine. MARTY keeps watching.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.8.)
dialog: Biff! Hey, Biff!
text: Biff looks around for the source of the voice.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.8.)
dialog: Over here, Biff!
text: It's OLD BIFF sitting ina nearby parked CAR motioning to young BIFF.
text: MARTY moves in closer and pulls out his binoculars. 308-B
scene_heading: MARTY’S P.O.V. OF THE CAR (BINOCULARS) 308-C
text: Young Biff steps over to the car.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Yeah? What's your problem, old man?
speaker_heading: OLD BIFF
dialog: How would you like to make a lot of money?
speaker_heading: 308-D
speaker_heading: A-309
speaker_heading: B-309
speaker_heading: A-310
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Yeah? Doin’ what?
speaker_heading: OLD BIFF
dialog: Get in and I'l tell you.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: What is this, Pops? And how do you know my name?
speaker_heading: OLD BIFF
dialog: We're related. Now, get in the car, butthead, and I'll explain it
dialog: to you.
text: Biff hesitates a moment, then goes over to the passenger side and gets in.
text: MARTY watches through the binoculars with anticipation. He can’t hear their conversation.
text: Marty pulls out the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, come in!
scene_heading: INT. — LAB WITH DOC AT THE BILLBOARD
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Roger, Marty, go ahead.
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: It's happening, Doc! Old Biff's here. He’s talking to young Biff
dialog: right now!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: All right, Marty. Remember, don’t make a move until after Old
text: Biff gives young Biff the book and leaves. We must let Old Biff
dialog: believe he’s succeeded so that he'll leave 1955 and bring the
text: DeLorean back to the future.
scene_heading: INTERCUT MARTY'’S P.O.V. OF THE CAR
text: Old Biff shows the Almanac to a very skeptical young Biff.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | see the book now!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Oh, and Marty: you must be especially careful not to let
dialog: yourself be seen by your father, your mother, or your other
dialog: self!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: My other self?
text: Marty realizes what DOC means. He looks down to the parking area and sees:
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL PARKING LOT (BINOCULARS POV)
text: The YELLOW PACKARD with LORRAINE and the “other” Marty (we'll refer to him as ‘55
text: MARTY) is pulling into the school park ing lot!
speaker_heading: 308-D
speaker_heading: A-309
speaker_heading: B-309
speaker_heading: A-310
speaker_heading: A-311
speaker_heading: A-312
text: MARTY shakes his head at the weirdness of it all. A-311
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: This is getting strange.
text: Marty then goes back to watching the 2 Biffs in the car.
text: Old Biff gives young Biff the Almanac.
text: Young Biff gets out of the car.
speaker_heading: OLD BIFF
dialog: Biff Tannen, you're one lucky guy.
text: Young Biff slams the door.
text: Old Biff revs up the car, backs up and drives out of there.
text: Young Biff looks at the book and shakes his head at the departing Old Biff as ifhe’s a nut
dialog: case.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: What a butthead!
text: Biff shoves the book in the back of his pants, then pulls out his girlie mag and saunters over
text: against a chain link fence at the stairs landing.
text: Biff leans against the fence and looks at the magazine. The Almanac is sticking out of his
dialog: pants. It's a perfect opportunity for Marty to get the book.
speaker_heading: MARTY A-312
text: quietly whispers into the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: All right, Doc, the old guy just left and I'm gonna make my
dialog: move...
text: Marty pockets the walkie-talkie and leaps over the parapet.
text: He drops into the stairwell on the opposite side of the fence which Biff is leaning against.
text: Bif if reacts to the sound. he looks around, sees nothing, then continues looking at his
dialog: magazine.
text: Marty moves into position.
text: He sees the almanac in Biff's pants, easily able to grab it.
text: He reaches for it...
text: And then STRICKLAND steps out of the adjoining building and starts toward Biff.
speaker_heading: STRICKLAND
dialog: Well, well, Mr. Tannen, how nice to see you here.
text: Biff turns, hides the magazine behind his back and tries to act innocent.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Why, Mr. Strickland, sir, nice to see you here, sir.
dialog: 313
speaker_heading: 314
dialog: 315
text: Strickland sniffs Biff's breath.
speaker_heading: STRICKLAND
dialog: Is that liquor | smell, Tannen?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: | wouldn't know, sir. | don't know whatliquor smells like
dialog: because I’m too young to drink it.
speaker_heading: STRICKLAND
dialog: | see. And what do we have... here?
text: Strickland reaches behind Biff's back and pulls out the SPORTS ALMANAC. He looks at the
dialog: cover.
speaker_heading: STRICKLAND
dialog: Sports statistics. Intere sting subject.
dialog: (looks thru it, shakes head)
dialog: Homework, Tannen?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: No, it ain't homework ‘cause | ain't at home.
speaker_heading: STRICKLAND
dialog: (shoves him)
dialog: You've gota real attitude problem, you know that, Tannen?
dialog: Just watch it, because one day|I’m gonna have you right
dialog: where | want you: in detention, slacker!
text: Strickland walks off with the Almanac, past the Packard and toward the school!
dialog: MARTY can't believe it!
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Butthead!
text: Biff takes a beat, then goes off in the direction that his guys went.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 313
text: MARTY runs after Strickland. 314
text: Strickland goes into the school.
text: Marty follows. As he approaches the Packard, he ducks down so that be is not seen by ‘55 Marty
text: and Lorraine who are inside.
text: Once clear of the Packard, Marty goes into the building Strickland had entered.
scene_heading: AT THE BILLBOARD 315
text: Doc paces anxiously.
text: Distant thunder. Doc looks up at the sky.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: The storm!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 316
speaker_heading: 317
speaker_heading: 318
speaker_heading: 318-A
speaker_heading: 319
scene_heading: INT. DARKENED SCHOOL HALLWAY — NIGHT 316
text: MARTY creeps down the hallway to the single lit door. He peeks through it.
scene_heading: MARTY'’S P.O.V. OF INT. STRICKLAND'S OFFICE 317
text: STRICKLAND'S OFFICE is a double office: an outer and inner office, separated by a glass
dialog: partition.
text: Marty is able to see Mr. Strickland in the inner office. His desk has an open kneehole.
text: MARTY quietly enters the outer office. He peeks through the partition and sees 318
text: STRICKLAND who puts the Almanac on his desk, sits down on his swivel chair and opens a 318-A
text: drawer. He pulls out a WHISKEY BOTTLE.
text: Strickland takes a nip and swivels around. His back is to the door.
text: MARTY goes to the door, stoops down and dashes in. He drops down alongside Strickland’s 319
dialog: desk.
text: Strickland reacts as if he’s heard anoise. A beat, then he shrugs and takes another nip.
text: Marty crams through the kneehole and reaches through with his hand in an effort to reach the
text: Almanac which is on top of the desk.
text: Just as Marty is about to reach it, Strickland turns. Marty withdraws his hand.
text: Strickland swivels in his chair and sticks his leg through the kneehole, alm ost kicking Marty in
text: the face.
text: Strickland leans back in his chair, looking away from the desk.
text: Again Marty attempts to grab the book; again, Strickland moves and thwarts the attempt.
text: At last, Strickland corks the bottle and puts it back in the drawer.
text: Strickland stands: he's ready to leave.
text: Marty smiles. Finally he’s going to get his chance.
text: Strickland moves away from the desk. A beat, then Strickland looks back at the desk and TAKES
dialog: THE ALMANAC WITH HIM!
dialog: Marty is horrified!
text: He watches as Strickland heads for the door.
text: Then Strickland simply tosses the book in the trash can and EXITS!
text: Marty sighs relief.
text: As soon as the door to the hall closes, Marty goes for the trash can and pulls out the book.
text: He's got it! There's that red cover: “SPORTS ALMANAC!”
text: Marty sighs relief. He picks it up, opens it and sees
text: PROVOCATIVE PICTURES OF SCANTILY CLAD WOMEN!
text: Marty doesn't get it. Then he discovers it's the GIRLIE MAGAZINE disguised with the
scene_heading: ALMANAC COVER JACKET!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Shit!
dialog: (into wakie-talkie)
dialog: Doc! Trouble! | blew it!
scene_heading: X-319 INTERCUT WITH DOC AT THE BILLBOARD X-319
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Where's the book?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Biff must still have it on him!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Where's Biff?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | don't know!
text: Through the window in the background we see GEORGE MCFLY hiking up his pants, about to
text: approach the Packard.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Don't you have any idea where he is?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No, Doc — he could be anywhere by now. For all | know he
dialog: could have hopped a Greyhound and left town!
text: Behind Marty, through the window, George steps up to the Packard, opens the door and
text: confronts BIFF.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Great Scott. This is serious shit!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Tell me about it!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Think, Marty, think! Where would Biff have gone?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, if | knew that, I'd go after him!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty, if we have to abortthis mission, we risk jeopardizing the
dialog: entire space-time continuum.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, | just don’t know where to—
text: From outside, Marty hears yelling.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE (0.S.)
dialog: Stop it. Biff, you'll break his arm!
speaker_heading: 319-A
speaker_heading: 319-B
dialog: 320
speaker_heading: 321
dialog: 322
speaker_heading: 323
speaker_heading: 323-A
speaker_heading: 324
dialog: 325
text: Marty looks out the window.
scene_heading: MARTY'S P.O.V. OF 319-A
text: BIFF twisting GEORGE’s arm back into a hammerlock at the Packard, with LORRAINE trying to
dialog: stop it.
text: MARTY lights up with an idea. 319-B
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Of course! | got one chance, Doc! I'll call you back!
speaker_heading: DOC (V.O. radio)
text: Roger, 10-4. Message acknowledged, standing by.
text: Marty runs to the door, unlocks the deadbolt, and takes off.
scene_heading: EXT. HILL VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL — NIGHT 320
text: MARTY comes running out from the school toward
scene_heading: EXT. THE PACKARD — NIGHT 321
text: The confrontation between BIFF and GEORGE continues.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Leave him alone!
text: Lorraine tries to stop him, but Biff knocks her down.
text: Biff laughs.
text: George reacts with rage. His fingers close into a fist, his teeth clench, and then he lets Biff
dialog: have it, right in the face!
dialog: MARTY is delighted. 322
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Way to go, George!
text: Marty suddenly ducks as he sees
text: THE “OTHER” MARTY (we'll refer to him as ‘55 MARTY) run in to see the aftermath of the 323
text: fight and react with amazement as
text: BIFF is knocked senseless and falls to the pavem ent. 323-A
text: MARTY again reacts to “himself.” 324
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Talk about deja vu...!
scene_heading: MARTY'S P.O.V. OF 325
text: George and Lorraine walking off arm and arm toward the school as a crowd gathers around
text: the unconscious Biff.
text: ‘55 Marty checks the disappearing photo, then turns around and runs off.
speaker_heading: 326
speaker_heading: 327
speaker_heading: 328
speaker_heading: 329
text: MARTY runs over to the crowd around Biff and pushes through. 326
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Let me through, | know CPR.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: CPR? What's CPR?
text: Marty pushes his way in there, and bends down over Biff.
scene_heading: ON BIFF AND MARTY 327
text: Biff GROAN S. He’s coming to. He blinks...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Everybody, move back. Give him some air.
text: The crowd moves back.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hey, what the — YOU! *
text: As Biff recognizes Marty, Marty punches Biff again!
dialog: Biff again loses consciousness!
text: Marty rolls him over, lifts up his jacket, and there’s the SPORTS ALMANAC, just as Biff had
text: tucked it into his pants.
text: Marty pulls it out, checks thatit’s the real thing and sighs relief. He stands.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It's okay, everybody, he’s gonna be fine.
text: Marty moves away from the crowd, book in hand, breathing easier.
text: When he’s a good distance away, he pulls out the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yo, Doc! Success! I've got it!
scene_heading: AT THE BILLBOARD 328
text: DOC BROWN responds to the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Thank goodness! I'll be on my way as soon as | reload Mr.
dialog: Fusion. I'llpick you up on the football field!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The football field! Ten-four!
text: Doc begins loading trash into Mr. Fusion.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL — NIGHT 329
text: MARTY shoves the Almanac into his JACKET POCKET. “EARTH ANGEL" can be heard
text: coming from inside the gym.
dialog: 330-
speaker_heading: 339
dialog: 340
dialog: 340-A
text: Marty goes running around toward the back of the school, and runs smack into SKINHEAD, 3-
text: D and MATCH coming from around the corner!
text: Marty imm ediately runs back the other way!
speaker_heading: SKINHEAD
dialog: Hey! That was him! In disguise! He got out!
speaker_heading: MATCH
dialog: Let's get him!
dialog: They chase Marty!
text: Marty runs INTO THE SCHOOL!
speaker_heading: OMITTED
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL GYM
text: Marty ducks into the school gym and stays off to the side, trying to be inconspicuous.
text: On stage, ‘55 Marty is introducing “Johnny B. Goode.”
text: Biff's boys come into gym and look around.
text: They spot ‘55 Marty on stage.
speaker_heading: 3-D
dialog: Look! How'd he get on stage?
speaker_heading: SKINHEAD
dialog: | don’t know. But sooner or later be’s gotta get down. And
dialog: we'llbe waitin’ for him, right off stage. C’mon!
text: Biff's guys make their way to side of the stage (stage left) as ‘55 Marty and the Starlighters kick
dialog: into “Johnny B. Goode.”
text: Marty reacts in horror. He calls into the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc! Biff's guys chased me into the gym and now they're
dialog: laying for me.
scene_heading: EXT. LYON ESTATES BILLBOARD (INTERCUT) — DOC
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Then go out another door.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No, they're laying for the other me: the me that's on stage,
dialog: playing Johnny B. Goode!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Great Scott! If they succeed, you'll miss the lightning bolt at
dialog: the clock tower, you won't get back to the future... and we'll
dialog: have a major paradox.
dialog: 330-
speaker_heading: 339
dialog: 340
dialog: 340-A
speaker_heading: 340-B
speaker_heading: 340-C
dialog: 340-
speaker_heading: 340-D
speaker_heading: 340-E
speaker_heading: 340-F
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: A paradox? You mean one of those things that could destroy
dialog: the Universe?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Precisely!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: This is heavy!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty: you have to stop those guys atall costs — but without
dialog: being seen by your other self, or your parents!
scene_heading: INT. GYM
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Ten-four.
text: Kids are dancing to Johnny B. Goode.
text: Marty tries to cut across the dance floor, but he spots George and Lorraine dancing.
text: Instead, Marty goes behind the refreshment table and makes his way to the opposite side of
text: the stage from where Biff's guys are (stage right).
text: Marty checks to see that ‘55 Marty is looking in the other direction, then he dashes up the
text: stairs and goes BACKSTAGE.
scene_heading: INT. GYM — BACKSTAGE
text: Marty can see Biff's guys waiting at the other end.
text: Marty looks around, trying to figure out what to do. Then he looks UP and sees a CATWALK
text: that runs above the stage. THREE SANDBAGS on a rope are situated right above Biff’s boys.
text: Marty has an idea. He climbs up the stage-right catwalk ladder.
scene_heading: EXT. LYON ESTATES BILLBOARD — NIGHT
text: The DELOREAN levitates up from behind the billboard and blasts off toward town.
speaker_heading: OMITTED
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL GYM — ON THE CATWALK ABOVE THE STAGE
text: Marty cautiously makes his way across the catwalk, above ‘55 Marty and the Starlighters.
text: One of the catwalk planks is rotted — Marty steps on it, it cracks and Marty loses his balance:
dialog: he alm ost falls over ‘55 Marty!
text: Marty regains his balance and makes it to the other end of the catwalk. He unties the ropes
text: holding the sandbags.
text: Biff's boys are directly below him.
text: MARTY fires the sandbags at Biff's guys.
text: Number one takes out Skinhead.
speaker_heading: 340-B
speaker_heading: 340-C
speaker_heading: 340-D
speaker_heading: 340-E
speaker_heading: 340-F
speaker_heading: 340-G
speaker_heading: 340-H
speaker_heading: 340-J
speaker_heading: 340-K
speaker_heading: 340-L
speaker_heading: 340-M
speaker_heading: 340-N
dialog: 341-
dialog: 350
speaker_heading: 351
text: Number two wipes out Match.
text: Number three knocks out 3-D.
text: Marty grabs the rope and swings down the backstage left area.
text: He runs out the exit.
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE ALCOVE
text: As Marty runs down the stairs it the alcove, he calls into the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Success, Doc! Everything's cool!
speaker_heading: OMITTED
scene_heading: EXT. NIGHT SKY — APPROACHING STORM
text: The DELOREAN flies through the clouds. It's quite turbulent, with lightning flashing and rolling
dialog: thunder.
scene_heading: INT. FLYING DELOREAN — NIGHT
text: DOC answers Marty.
speaker_heading: DOC
text: Not quite, Marty! I'm in the clouds over the football field, but
dialog: with all this turbulence, I'm afraid I'll smash up if try to land. I'll
dialog: throw you arope!
scene_heading: INT. BACKSTAGE ALCOVE
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: On my way, Doc!
text: Marty runs out the exit fire door. Justas he exits, LORRAINE enters to meet ‘55 MARTY
text: coming down.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL
text: MARTY comes outside. He glances back in the window where he sees...
scene_heading: MARTY'’S P.O.V. THRU. WINDOW
text: ‘55 Marty saying goodbye to Lorraine.
speaker_heading: ‘55 MARTY
dialog: | had a feeling about you two.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: | have a feeling, too.
speaker_heading: OMITTED
text: MARTY smiles.
speaker_heading: 340-G
speaker_heading: 340-H
speaker_heading: 340-J
speaker_heading: 340-K
speaker_heading: 340L*
speaker_heading: 340-M
speaker_heading: 340-N
dialog: 341-
dialog: 350
speaker_heading: 351
dialog: 352
speaker_heading: 353
speaker_heading: DOC (V.O.)
dialog: Hurry, Marty! The lightning’s coming closer — it may be
dialog: attracted to the DeLorean!
text: Marty looks up at the sky and starts for the football field.
speaker_heading: BIFF (O.S.)
dialog: Hey, butthead!!!
text: Marty stops and turns: BIFF is near the fire door. He has a bloody mouth.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: C’mon, let's have it out! You and me!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No thanks!
text: Marty takes off.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: What's the matter? Chicken?
text: Marty stops short, tensing up.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Too chicken to take me on, one on one?
text: Marty tums around, filled with resolve.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Nobody calls me chicken.
text: Marty takes off his jacket and throws it down. The walkie-talkie is in the pocket.
text: He approaches Biff.
text: Biff smiles. Behind his back he has BRASS KNUCKLES on his fist.
speaker_heading: DOC (V.0O. radio)
dialog: Hurry, Marty! Don’t stop for anything! It’s getting dangerous!
dialog: The lightning’s getting closer every second!
text: But Marty can’t hear it. He comes closer to Biff.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL GYM — BACK STAGE (EXISTING FOOTAGE) 352
text: Inside, ‘55 Marty concludes his goodbye to George and Lorraine.
speaker_heading: ‘655 MARTY
dialog: ..if you guys ever have kids, and one of them when he’s 8
text: years old accidentally sets fire to the living room rug: Go easy
text: on him.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL — FIREDOOR 353,
text: Biff and Marty stand facing each other off.
text: Behind his back, Biff grips the brass knuckles tightly.
dialog: 354-
speaker_heading: 367
speaker_heading: 368
speaker_heading: 369
speaker_heading: 369-A
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: C’mon. Take a poke at me, chicken.
text: Suddenly, the FIRE DOOR IS FLUNG OPEN BY ‘55 MARTY, and WHACKS BIFF IN THE
speaker_heading: HEAD!
text: ‘55 Marty runs off like a streak, oblivious to what's just happened.
text: Biff hits the ground, out cold, and drops the brass knuckles.
text: Marty realizes what almost happened.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (yells to his departing self)
dialog: Thanks a lot!
speaker_heading: ‘55 MARTY (O.S.)
dialog: You're welcome!
text: Marty grabs his jacket and goes running toward the football field. The LIGHTNING and
text: THUNDER continue.
speaker_heading: DOC (V.O. radio)
dialog: Hurry up, Marty!
dialog: 354-
speaker_heading: OMITTED 367
scene_heading: INT. FLYING DELOREAN 368
text: DOC continues to fight the turbulence, struggling to steady the craft. The passenger door is
text: open; a ROPE is looped around the seat and dangles out the door.
text: Suddenly, a WHITE FLASH OF LIGHTNING and tremendous THUNDERCLAP rock the
dialog: DeLorean sideways!
scene_heading: EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD/STADIUM — NIGHT 369
text: MARTY comes running onto the football field. Lightning and thunder continue.
text: The ROPE is hanging down from within the low lying clouds. It dangles near the 50 yard line, a
text: few feet off the ground.
text: MARTY runs for it. 369-A.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I'm comin’, Doc!!
text: The rope whips around wildly.
text: Marty pours it on. 20 yards to go, 10 yards...
text: Marty jumps and grabs the rope. Success!
text: Suddenly, a HUGE BOLT OF LIGHTNING STRIKES THE FLYING DELOREAN!
text: Marty drops. The rest of the rope falls to the ground.
text: Marty looks up.
speaker_heading: 370
dialog: 370-A
dialog: The DeLorean is gone without a trace!
text: MARTY gasps. He picks up the other end of the rope: severed clean.
text: Everything gets quiet.
text: Marty stares upward in stunned silence, waiting for the DeLorean to reappear.
dialog: Nothing happens.
text: Marty takes out the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yo, Doc? Come in, Doc!
dialog: No response.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hello, Doc, do you read me, over?
dialog: Just static.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc, answer me, please!
text: As ifin response, there's a blinding flash of LIGHTNING with a deafening crack of THUNDER,
text: followed by RAIN. Hard, steady, cold rain.
text: Marty runs for cover and ducks into a
speaker_heading: STADIUM TUNNEL
text: Marty looks out from the tunnel onto the field. The storm continues.
text: Marty just watches. He’s confused, worried, scared.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (yells)
speaker_heading: DOC!
text: His voice barely carries in the rain.
text: Marty sighs.
text: He pulls the SPORTS ALMANAC out of his pocket. He looks at it and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Me and my great ideas.
text: Marty stoops down, puts the book on the ground, pulls out the Biff Tannen MATCHBO OK and
text: lights the book on FIRE.
text: Behind Marty, far in the background, we may notice an eerie silhouette: the figure of a MAN
dialog: approaching.
text: Marty watches as the Almanac is consumed by flames. He glances at the matchbook.
scene_heading: INSERT — MATCHBOOK
speaker_heading: 370
speaker_heading: 370A*
speaker_heading: 370-B
text: The writing on the matchb ook cover changes from saying “Biff Tannen’s Paradise” to “Biff
dialog: Tannen’s Auto Detailing.”
text: MARTY brightens. He reaches inside his jacket for something... while behind him, the
text: approaching figure moves closer, evoking the feeling of impending doom...
text: Marty pulls out the 1973 Newspaper.
text: The headline, “GEORGE McFLY MURDERED” dissolves and becomes “GEORGE McFLY
dialog: HON ORED. Loca! Author Receives Civic Award.”
text: Marty sighs relief.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That takes care of that.
text: The MAN behind him moves ever closer. We cant see his face, but he wears a HAT,
text: TRENCHCOAT, and carries a BRIEFCASE.
speaker_heading: TRENCHCOAT (0.S.)
dialog: Marty McF ly?
text: Marty turns around with a start. He stares at the man. Who is this guy?
speaker_heading: TRENCHCOAT
dialog: Is your name Marty McFly?
text: Marty looks at the guy. He’s never seen him before.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (suspicious)
dialog: Yeah...
text: Trenchcoat steps into the dry tunnel. He’s about 25, a bureaucrat type. He looks over Marty.
speaker_heading: TRENCHCOAT
dialog: Five foot four, brown hair... Well, I'llbe damned. Marty, I've
dialog: got a letter for you.
text: He opens his briefcase and pulls outa CLIPBOARD and an ANCIENT YELLOWED
text: ENVELOPE sealed with a WAX SEAL.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: A letter? That's impossible! W ho are you, anyway?
speaker_heading: TRENCHCOAT
dialog: I'm from western Union, and actually, a bunch ofus in the
dialog: office were hoping you could shed some light on the subject.
dialog: You see, this envelope’s been in our company’s possession
dialog: for almost 70 years. It was given to us with explicit instructions
dialog: that it be delivered to a young man with your description
dialog: answering to the name of Marty at this exact location at this
dialog: exact minute on November 12, 1955. We had a bet going as
dialog: to whether this “Marty’ would actually be here. Looks like |
dialog: lost.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Did you say 70 years?
speaker_heading: 370B*
speaker_heading: 371
dialog: 372
speaker_heading: 372-A
speaker_heading: 372-B
speaker_heading: 373
speaker_heading: TRENCHCOAT
dialog: Uh, 67 to be exact. Sign on line 6, please.
text: He hands Marty the clipboard and pen. Marty signs, then hands it back. The man gives Marty
text: the aged envelope.
text: Marty breaks the seal and opens the letter. He looks over the yellowed pages and flips to the
dialog: end to check the signature.
speaker_heading: INSERT — LETTER
text: “Your friend in time, ‘Doc’ Emmett L. Brown.” Beneath the signature is a stylized “E-L-B.”
dialog: MARTY can't believe it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc!
text: He turns to the beginning and starts reading.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (reads)
dialog: “Dear Marty: If my calculations are correct, you will receive
dialog: this letter immediately after you saw the DeLorean struck by
dialog: lightning. First, let me assure that | am alive and well, living
dialog: happily in the year 1888 these past few months...”
dialog: 188871?
dialog: 
text: Marty continues reading, reacting with rising astonishment.
text: Trenchcoat tries to read it over Marty's shoulder, but Marty won't let him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (muttering to himself)
dialog: Too many jigowatts... Time circuits shorted... July, 18881!
text: Marty looks up from the letter and looks around and sees
speaker_heading: MARTY'S P.O.V. OF
text: THE CLOCKTOWER in the distance, above the trees. The tiny figure of 55 DOCTOR
text: BROWN can be seen on the ledge.
text: MARTY takes a deep breath, folds the letter, puts it in his jacket and runs off.
speaker_heading: TRENCHCOAT
dialog: Hey, can’t you at least tell me what this is all about?
dialog: (a beat; shrugs)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN SQUARE — NIGHT
text: MARTY comes running into town square at 10:04, just in time to see the events he
dialog: experienced in 1955 (in the first movie):
text: The pole-mounted DeLorean races toward the electrical line...
speaker_heading: 371
dialog: 372
speaker_heading: 372A*
speaker_heading: 372-B
speaker_heading: 373
text: LIGHTNING strikes the clocktower...
text: The DOC BROWN of 1955 (‘55 DOC) connects the cables.
text: The DeLorean hook engages the line, sending 1.21 jigowatts of electricity into the flux
text: capacitor, and the time vehicle vanishes into the future...
text: Trails of FIRE are left behind.
text: ‘55 Doc Brown gets up, sees what has happened and mns down the street, yelling
dialog: euphorically!
speaker_heading: ‘65 DOC
dialog: Ya-Haaaaaa!!!!!!
text: MARTY steps out from the side of the Courthouse and comes up behind ‘55 Doc.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc!
text: ‘55 Doc turns, sees Marty and FREAKS OUT!
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: YAAAAAAAA!!!!II!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Calm down, Doc! It's me — Marty!
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: No! It can’t be you! | just sent you back to the future!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Right! You did send me back to the future. But! came back:
text: back from the future.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: Great Scott!
text: Doc staggers back, stunned. He clutches his chest, his breath shortens, his eyes roll back...
text: and he faints.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc!!!
text: Am Marty bends down to attempt to revive the unconscious Doc, we CRANE BACK.
text: Superimpose title: “TO BE CONCLUDED NEXT SUMMER in BACK TO THE FUTURE 3!”
speaker_heading: 374
dialog: 375
speaker_heading: 376
scene_heading: EXT. DOC BROWN’S HOUSE AND GARAGE — NIGHT 374
text: Wide, establishing. The storm rages. Doc’s PACKARD is parked outside.
scene_heading: INT. DOC’S STUDY — NIGHT 375
text: CLOSE ON THE FIREPLACE The SPORTS ALMANAC is thrown onto the buming log fire.
text: MARTY pokes it with the poker, making sure that it all gets enveloped in flame. 376
text: Then Marty takes out the 1973 newspaper. As the flames consume the almanac, the headline,
text: “GEORGE McFLY MURDERED” becomes “GEORGE McFLY HONORED. Local Author
dialog: Receives Book Award.”
text: Marty also pulls out the MATCHBOOK from Biff’s Paradise Hotel. The writing on it dissolves
text: away and becomes “Biff's Auto Detailing.”
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That's takes care of that...
text: Doc is pacing, reading the letter aloud.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: (reads)
text: “The lightning bolt caused a jigowatt overload which activated
dialog: the flux capacitor, sending me back to 1888. Upon landing, |
text: bottomed out the car, destroying the drive train and flying
text: circuits, making it impossible to get the car up to 88 under its
dialog: own power. Luckily, | realized that a locomotive could push it *
dialog: up to speed and | devised a plan to do so...”
dialog: Push it with a steam locomotive? Brilliant! Absolutely brilliant!
text: “Unfortunately, the lightning had also shorted out the enclosed
dialog: destination time circuit microchip...”
text: Doc pulls a partially blackened 1-inch square microchip from the envelope.
speaker_heading: ‘65 DOC
dialog: (reads)
dialog: “Without it, | could not control my destination time. | was
dialog: unable to repair it because suitable replacement parts will not
dialog: be invented until 1947.”
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: 1888. Amazing. | actually end up living in the wild west!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I'm sorry, Doc. It's all my fault. You were there, waiting; | could
dialog: have run from Biff. But | lethim get to me. And now you're
text: stuck in the west.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: Stuck? No, Marty, this sounds like a wonderful way to spend
dialog: my retirement years! Why, ever since | was a boy, | wanted to
dialog: be a cowboy! | used to spend summers at my Uncle's ranch.
dialog: Uncle Abraham taught me how to ride and shoot and rope. *
dialog: He used to say to my parents. “Young Emmett belongs in the
text: fresh air and wide open spaces; not in a school room.”
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: So how'd you end up as a scientist?
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: Well, when | was eleven, | read a book by the most visionary
dialog: author in the world: Jules Verne. “20,000 Leagues Under the
dialog: Sea.” And | discovered SCIENCE. That's when | decided
dialog: what my future had to be. Jules Verne’s novels had a
dialog: profound effect on me. You know, | really should put his
text: portrait up there with Tom, Ben, Isaac and Albert...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Keep reading, Doc.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: (reads)
dialog: “Therefore, | have buried the time machine in the abandoned
text: Delgado mine, adjacent to the Oak Park Cemetery, as shown
text: on the enclosed map. Hopefully, it should remain undisturbed
dialog: until you uncover it in 1955.
dialog: “Inside you will find repair instructions. My 1955 counterpart”
dialog: — That's me — "should have no problem making the
dialog: electrical repairs. Then he'll have to push the time vehicle up
dialog: to 88 and send you back to 1985. Then, Marty, destroy the
dialog: time machine.
dialog: “Do not, | repeat, do NOT attempt to come back here to get
dialog: me. | am perfectly happy living here in the fresh air and wide
dialog: open spaces. I've even met a wonderful woman I’m
dialog: considering settling down with...”
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: A woman! I've found a woman? Amazing!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, you'd been talking about finding a woman... although
dialog: you made it sound like it was gonna be a scientific
dialog: investigation.
speaker_heading: ‘65 DOC
dialog: Man cannot live by science alone. A woman! This is
dialog: wonderful news! | certainly hope she likes Jules Verne.
dialog: (reads)
dialog: “These are my wishes: please res pect them and follow them.
dialog: And so, Marty, | now say farewell and wish you Godspeed.
dialog: You have been a good, kind, and loyal friend to me, and
dialog: you've made a real difference in my life...”
dialog: (chokes up)
dialog: “| will always treasure our relationship, and think on you with
dialog: fond memories, warm feelings and a special place in my
dialog: heart. Your friend in time, ‘Doc’ Emmett L. Brown. April 10,
dialog: 1888.”
text: Doc is all choked up. He wipes a tear from his eye.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: | never knew | could write anything so touching.
text: Marty chokes up seeing the Doc choked up.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | know, Doc, it’s... beautiful...
text: Doc's 1955 dog, Copernicus, whimpers as well.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: It's all right, Copernicus. Everything's going to be fine.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Here’s the map, Doc...
text: Marty hands it to him and Doc studies it.
speaker_heading: ‘65 DOC
dialog: (studying the map)
text: According to this, the time vehicle’s been sealed off in a side
dialog: tunnel. We may have to blast.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 377 CLOSE ON A DETONATOR 377
text: in Doc's hands. Doc twists it.
scene_heading: 378 EXT. SIDE OF HILL— DAY 378
text: An EXPLOSION blasts away part of a hill!
text: The rocks and debris, knock down several adjacent TOMBSTONES.
text: 379 ‘55 DOC AND MARTY, a safe distance away, are showered with dirt and debris. 379
text: The storm is over: Doc's PACKARD is parked nearby.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | think you woke the dead with that blast.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: Just a few tombstones, Marty. We'll set ‘em back up later.
dialog: Bring the Polaroid. We'llneed to put everything back the way
dialog: we found it.
text: Marty takes a Polaroid camera; both also grab duffels full of tools and supplies and they
text: approach the hole they've blown in the hill.
text: They walk right over a fallen tombstone, the same tombstone Einstein whimpered beside in
text: 1985: Doc’s tombstone. We HOLD ON IT as they continue.
dialog: “Here lies Emmett Brown.
dialog: Date of birth, unknown.
text: Shot in the back by Buford Tannen
dialog: April 13, 1888.”
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 380 INT. MINE TUNNEL 380
text: Lit by LANTERNS, MARTY and ‘55 DOC make their way along the mine shaft. *
dialog: 380-A
speaker_heading: 381
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: I've gotta hand it to myself, hiding the time vehicle in a
text: location like this. The temperature stays constant, very little
dialog: humidity... a perfect preservation environ ment. Brilliant!
text: Doc checks the map.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: Hmmm. According to this it should be around here...
text: They look around but there's no evidence of anything.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc! Look! *
text: Marty holds his lantern near abeam. Carved into itare the initials E.L.B.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: My initials! It must be right through this wall!
text: They remove rock and timber, and push through the wall, revealing a HIDDEN CHAMBER.
scene_heading: INT. MINE — HIDDEN CHAMBER 380-A.
text: ‘55 Doc and Marty push their way into the chamber. They hold up their lanterns:
text: The DELOREAN can be clearly seen. It’s covered with animal skins.
text: Marty and Doc exchange a satisfied smile and begin removing the animal hides.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: And it’s been buried here for 67 years! Astounding.
text: They examine the car. Doc touches a tire: itcracks apart and crumbles.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Say, Doc, when you uncover something that hasn't been
dialog: invented yet, is it still considered archeology?
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
text: (thinks, then shakes his head)
dialog: No. Insanity.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MINE/HILL — DUSK 381
text: The PACKARD, with Doc at the wheel, pulls the DeLorean out of the mine via a tow cable.
text: The DMC is dirty, and its tires are in shreds.
text: MARTY meanwhile is setting up toppled tombstones.
text: He suddenly freezes in horror as he reads the one he’s just set up: Doc's tombstone.
text: Marty stares at it, then looks over at Doc. Should he tell Doc or not?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (yells from a distance)
dialog: C'mon, Marty, let's go!
text: Marty stays there, contemplating the situation. He pulls out Doc’s letter and checks the date.
scene_heading: 381-A INSERT —LETTER 381-A.
dialog: The letter is dated “April 10, 1888.”
scene_heading: 381-B THE TOMBSTONE is dated “April 13, 1888.” 381-B
scene_heading: 381-C MARTY shakes his head. 381-C
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: 3 days. You getshot 3 days after you write the letter. Some *
dialog: future.
text: Marty wipes a tear from his eye.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: What is it, Marty? Is something wrong?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, no, Doc. I'llbe right there. |... just have to tie my shoe.
text: Blocking his action from Doc's view, Marty raises the POLAROID camera and snaps a
text: PICTURE of the tombstone.
dialog: 382- 382-
speaker_heading: 383 OMITTED 383
scene_heading: 384 INSERT — TIME DISPLAYS. 384
text: The Destination time of “October 27, 1985” appears on the display.
scene_heading: 385 EXT. THE DELOREAN — HIGHW AY — DAY 385
text: ‘55 Doc has entered the destination time into the DeLorean which has been modified with 1955
text: whitewall tires and a large 4 foot square board full of VACUUM TUBES, wires, capacitors, etc.
text: mounted on the hood.
text: It's sitting on the ROAD near the LYON ESTATES BILLBOARD, with Doc’s PACKARD directly
text: behind it.
text: Doc puts his hand over the softly glowing tubes.
speaker_heading: ‘65 DOC
dialog: Well, the time circuits are all warmed up. | guess this is it.
text: They embrace.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: Funny. I'll see you in the future, but since my future’s in the
dialog: past, you won't be seeing me.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | know, Doc...
speaker_heading: 386
text: Marty hugs Doc tighter as he tries to hold back his tears.
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: It's going to be fine, Marty. Everything's going to be fine. Just
dialog: don't forget to destroy the time machine when you get back to
dialog: the future.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Look, Doc, ab out the future — your future, | mean...
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: Marty, don't worry about my future. Living in the fresh air and
dialog: wide. open spaces, I'll probably live to the ripe old age of 90...
dialog: maybe 100! And knowing | have a woman to share it with...
dialog: Why, my future couldn't be brighter!
text: Doc heads to the Packard.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: ‘55 DOC
dialog: Marty, may your future be as bright.
text: Doc gets into the Packard.
text: Marty gets into the DeLorean.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS — PACKARD/DELOREAN
text: Doc revs up the Packard, puts itin gear, and honks.
text: Marty shifts the DeLorean into neutral and releases the emergency brake.
text: The Packard starts pushing the DeLorean forward.
text: Marty at the wheel of the DeLorean. He pulls out Doc's letter and looks at the date: April 10,
dialog: 1888.
text: Doc at the wheel of the Packard. He shifts into high gear.
text: The 2 vehicles, accelerating.
text: Marty looks at the Polaroid of the tombstone and the date: April 13, 1888.
text: The Packard speedometer climbing: 40...45...50...
text: Marty's P.O.V. thru the windshield of the high way.
text: Marty reprograms the DESTINATION TIME to APRIL...
text: The DeLorean speedometer climbing right in step:
dialog: 55... 60... 65...
speaker_heading: APRIL 1...
text: Doc's foot on the Packard accelerator.
speaker_heading: 386
dialog: APRIL 11... *
text: The speedometer passes 80...
dialog: APRIL 11, 18... *
text: The DeLorean light displays kick on.
dialog: APRIL 11, 188... *
text: The flux capacitor begins glowing.
dialog: APRIL 11, 1888. *
text: The speedometer hits 88.
text: Marty grits his teeth; the flux capacitor discharges.
dialog: (Note: Scene numbers 387 to 500 are reserved.)
scene_heading: 501 MARTY’S P.O.V. THRU THE WINDSHIELD 501
text: With a burst of white light, the 1955 RURAL HIGHWAY instantly becomes...
text: ...a STAMPEDE of CATTLE, COMING RIGHT AT MARTY!
text: 502 MARTY stares in wide-eyed terror! 502
scene_heading: 503 EXT. RURAL COUNTRY — 1888 — DAY 503
text: The cattle separate around the DeLorean, which coasts to a stop in the midst of the moving
dialog: herd!
text: In moments the herd has passed.
text: 504 MARTY sighs relief, then gets out of the DeLorean. He looks back at the cattle. 504
scene_heading: 505 EXT. RURAL COUNTRY — DAY 505
text: The herd thunders off. *
text: MARTY watches and shakes his head.
text: He looks back at the time displays:
scene_heading: 505-A INSERT — TIME DISPLAYS 505-A.
dialog: Present time is now “April 11, 1888. 7 a.m.” *
dialog: 506- 506-
speaker_heading: 509 OMITTED 509
scene_heading: 510 EXT. DIRT ROAD — DAY 510
text: MARTY walks along the road.
text: Ahead, a hand painted sign post with an arrow pointed in the same direction:
scene_heading: “HILL VALLEY — 2 MILES”
speaker_heading: 511
text: Marty continues onward.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HILL VALLEY — 1888 — DAY 511
text: CLOSE ON NIKE SHOES running... then slowing to a stop.
speaker_heading: WIDEN
text: Marty has arrived in town. He looks around with amaze ment.
text: Hill Valley 1888 is a typical western town... yet even now bears a little resemblance to the town
dialog: Marty’s familiar with.
text: The town is built around a grassy square, where a flagpole flies the Stars and Stripes (38
text: stars). The streets are, of course, dirt and mud. Where there's a sidewalk, its wooden.
text: The COURTHOUSE is just starting construction; there are the MARBLE PILLARS, and some
text: very rough framing.
text: There’s aSALOON (roughly in the location that the cafe will be):a BLACKSMITH, STABLES,
text: a HOTEL, a GENERAL STORE, a BARBER SHOP, a WELLS FARGO office and a BANK.
text: The MARSHAL'S OFFICE: A sign on the door reads: “CLOSED: GONE FISHING.”
text: There is PEDESTRIAN traffic, CARRIAGE traffic, MEN and BOYS on HORSES, and a number
speaker_heading: of CHINESE.
text: Some of them give Marty looks: his clothes don’t go unnoticed.
text: Suddenly,a MAN runs through the street, yelling.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: He's comin’! He's comin’!
text: Immediately, people clear the street, running into buildings, or running around the corner.
text: Shopkeepers slam their doors and windows.
text: Marty stands in the middle of the street, bewildered. Is all of this panic because of him?
text: Behind Marty, 4 HORSEMEN, all rough looking characters, come thundering down the street.
text: They halt just a few feet behind Marty and draw pistols.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Whatcha doin’ in my street, runt?
text: Marty tums and faces the men.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Huh?
text: It's BUFORD “BLACK BIFF” TANNEN: jet black hair and beard, and mean eyes, just like the
dialog: picture we saw in the documentary.
text: He’s accompanied by 3 cronies, STUBBLE, CEEGAR and BUCK.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: | charge cash money for any egg suckin’ tinhorn gutter trash
dialog: standin’ in my street when | come to town. How much you
dialog: got?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, nothing...
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Nothin’? Buck: check his teeth for gold or silver.
text: BUCK dismounts and examines Marty's teeth.
speaker_heading: BUCK
dialog: Well, lookee at these pearly whites! | ain't never seed teeth
dialog: this straight what warn’t store bought. Nothin’ here, Buford.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: What's that on his shoes? Some kinda injun writin’?
speaker_heading: BUCK
dialog: It says “Nee—Kay.”
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Well, shorty, why don't you show us how good them fancy ass
dialog: shoes are for dancin’.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: | said, DANCE!
text: Black Biff fires a shot right in front of Marty's feet... then another.
text: Marty starts dancing — first a few hops, to the delight of Biff and the boys... then Marty goes
text: into a Michael Jackson style moonwalk, as he mumbles the lyrics to “Billie Jean.”
text: Biff and the guys trade looks at this bizarre style of dancing.
text: Marty suddenly twirls around with a jump and a yell. The sudden action SPOOKS BIFF'S
text: HORSE who neighs and bucks, throwing Biff into some MANURE in the street.
text: Black Biff looks at the dung on him. He looks at Marty with fire in his eyes — his expression is
text: almost psychotic.
text: Biff's cronies tense up. There's going to be some serious trouble.
text: Marty knows it, too, but he’s too petrified to run. Biff gets to his feet.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Buck: gimme a rope.
text: Buck throws him a coil of rope.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What are you gonna do?
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: I'm gonna make you taller, shorty.
text: Black Biff throws the rope around Marty's neck, jumps on his horse, and starts off down the
dialog: street.
text: Marty runs behind him, trying to keep up while trying to get the noose off his neck, but he can't
text: run fast enough. He stumbles, and is dragged around the square. Black Biff laughs and yells,
text: and his boys do likewise.
text: Townspeople come out to see what's going on.
text: Black Biff guides his horse into the grassy square.
text: He throws the rope over an overhanging tree branch and pulls.
text: Marty struggles, but he can’t free himself. He’s pulled to his feet, and then up off the ground, all
text: the time grabbing at the rope to keep from choking.
text: Black Biff and gang are laughing, having a great time watching Marty struggle.
text: Suddenly, another SHOT RINGS OUT and the rope above Marty is severed!
text: Marty falls to the ground.
text: Black Biff and gang turn in the direction of the shot.
text: DOC BROWN is holding a WINCHESTER repeater modified with a TELESCOPIC SIGHT that
text: looks like something out of Jules Verne. His hair is slicked down and he's wearing the garb of
text: a western BLACKSMITH.
speaker_heading: DOC
text: It’ shoot the fleas offa dog at 500 yards, Tannen.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc!
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Well, welll, if it ain't the blacksmith. | wasn’t expectin’ to settle
dialog: my score with you till tomorrow.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: The only thing we have to settle is that you leave him alone
dialog: and get outta here.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: | don’t see where you're in any position to be tellin’ me
dialog: anything. Boys...
text: Biff's guys all draw their guns on Doc.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: 3 guns against 1. And | haven't even drawn yet. The odds
dialog: ain't exactly in your favor, blacksmith.
text: We hear the sound of SHOTGUNS COCKING.
speaker_heading: CLARA (0.8.)
dialog: 3 against two, Tannen...
text: Everyone turns.
text: A woman, CLARA, is standing in the street holding a mostintimidating weapon: 4 SAWED-
text: OFF SHOTGUN BARRELS mounted in fan-shaped arrangement in a yoke on a 4-trigger
dialog: stock.
text: Clara looks like a school teacher, with a touch of quirkiness that makes her instantly likeable.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Of course, I've got 4 barrels, loaded with double-aught buck,
text: nails, broken glass, and shiny new dimes. That means, if |
dialog: can see it, | can hitit. Invented by Emmett Brown for Home
dialog: Defense and Security. He calls it “The Terminator.” Would
dialog: you care fora demonstration?
text: Biff considers his options, then smiles and waves his boys off.
text: They holster their guns.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: I'll be back day after tomorrow, blacksmith, to settle our score.
dialog: That's Friday the 13th.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Just because your horse threw a shoe is no reason to shoot a
dialog: blacksmith.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Don't be tellin’ me my business, smithy! Like the Bible says,
text: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, one dead blacksmith for
text: one thrown shoe.
dialog: (to Marty)
dialog: As for you, runt, you got a name?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, Mar—
text: Marty notices Doc shaking his head no.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, Clint. Clint Eastwood.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Well, Mr. Eastwood, I'll see you out on the street Friday the
dialog: 13th, front of the saloon. And you'd better be there!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, right. When? High noon?
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Noon? I do my killin’ before breakfast. 8 o'clock!
text: With that, Black Biff and his gang ride off. Clara lowers “The T erminator.”
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Emmett, someday you've got to teach me how to load this
dialog: thing.
dialog: 512-
speaker_heading: 515
speaker_heading: 515-A
text: Marty gets up, relieved to see Doc. He rubs his neck. He's weak and little pale.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty! Its good to see you!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hiya, Doc...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You look a little pale. Are you all right?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Sure, Doc, I'm...
text: As Marty takes a step toward Doc, he passes out and hits the ground.
dialog: 512-
speaker_heading: OMITTED 515
scene_heading: INT. BLACKSMITH SHOP — NIGHT 515-A
text: MARTY, unconscious on a bed, now opens his eyes and looks around.
text: Doc’s workshop, lit by FAT LAMPS, contains tools, anvils, a forge and workbenches. There are
text: also various inventions that Doc has concocted to modernize his surroundings: wooden gutters
text: for indoor plumbing, a steam operated toilet, and a pulley system to open windows and control
dialog: ventilation.
text: Marty examines some of these inventions.
text: Now CLARA enters with a TRAY OF FOOD.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Hello. Feeling better?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, yeah...
text: She puts the tray on a table.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Here, Clint, eat. It'll build your strength. And the salve | put on
dialog: your neck should heal that rope burn very quickly. Oh, my
dialog: name's Clara. Clara Clayton.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hi. Pleased to meet you.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Emmett told me you come from a strange, far away place.
dialog: From the way your dressed, it must be San Francisco.
text: Marty starts eating.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, yeah. So where is the Doc?
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: The Doc?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc Brown — | mean, Emmett.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: He's actually a doctor? He’s so modest — | knew he was
dialog: more than just a blacksmith. Em mett — the Doc — is
dialog: delivering a wagon he repaired for Farmer Peabody. | expect
dialog: him back presently. Imagine that. Doctor Emmett Brown. He
dialog: is the most brilliant man I've ever met. Even when | don't
dialog: know what he’s talking about, | just love hearing him talk
dialog: about it And he’s wonderful with the children.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Children? What children?
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: The school children. | teach school part time, and Emmett
dialog: helps with the science lessons. | love science, too. I've been
dialog: fascinated with it ever since | read “20,000 Leagues Under the
dialog: Sea.”
text: Marty smiles, and nods knowingly.
text: Now DOC ENTERS.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Clara, has Marty — uh, Clint—
dialog: (sees Marty)
dialog: Well, | see you two have already met.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, Clara’s made me feel right athome, Doc.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Well, now that you're back, Emmett, I've got anight school
dialog: lesson to give. Clint, | hope to see you later. Emmett, | know
dialog: I'll see you later.
text: She gives Doc a kiss. Doc is slightly embarrassed. She leaves.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: She doesn’t know I’m from the future or about the time
dialog: machine or anything, so watch what you say.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | figured.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: So what do you think of her?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: She's great, Doc!
dialog: (takes another bite of food)
dialog: And she’s a great cook, too. What is this stuff anyway?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Rattlesnake.
text: Marty spits it out.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Actually, Clara may be moving back east. | really want her to
dialog: stay, sol’m seriously considering popping the question. What
dialog: do you think?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, well, Doc, | think you'd better hold off on that...
text: Marty hands Doc the Polaroid photo.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Great Scott! So Tannen’s actually going to shoot me on
dialog: Friday! This changes everything!
speaker_heading: 516 OMITTED 516
scene_heading: 516-A INT. DELOREAN 516-A
text: CLOSE ON the SHIFT LEVER as Marty's hand pushes it to NEUTRAL.
scene_heading: 516-B CLOSE ON MARTY BEHIND THE WHEEL 516-B
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Ready, Doc!
scene_heading: 516-C WIDER — DIRT ROAD — NIGHT (DAY FOR NIGHT) 516-C
text: DOC sits on the DeLorean roof, jerks a set of reins anda TEAM OF 4 HORSES PULLS THE
text: DELOREAN down the road while MARTY steers from inside!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 517 INT. DOC’S BLACKSMITH WORKSHOP — DAY 517
text: Doc has the DeLorean hoisted on a chain-pulley rig. He is replacing the wheels with
text: RAILROAD HANDCAR WHEELS.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Amazing. This tube contraption is precisely as | envisioned it.
dialog: Then again, | builtit, didn't!? If only I'd had some of these
dialog: parts when | crashed. | was actually trying to construct a
dialog: steam operated flux capacitor. Speaking of parts...
text: Doc opens a cabinet and pulls out a crate full of various odds and ends from the adventures in
text: time: the PINK HOVERBOARD...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: We'd better be sure to bring this back with us...
text: (pulls out a 1985 walkie-talkie)
dialog: And this we'll need to communicate tomorrow... you have the
dialog: other one?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: In the car. So, Doc, how's this train thing going to work?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I'll show you. | constructed this model a few weeks ago when |
dialog: thought | could still get back...
text: Marty follows Doc into a 2nd room where Doc removes a CANVAS COVER from a large table,
text: revealing a home made table top model — a combination of toys, wooden blocks, a wind-up
text: toy train, and other odds and ends.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Wow, you went to a lot of trouble!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Well, you know how it is with model trains. Besides, the kids
dialog: around here love it.
dialog: Now, in order to get a steam locomotive up to 88, we need a
text: long stretch of track on a downhill grade, which still exists in
text: 1985. That's here — Carson Spur, which goes off the main
dialog: line at this switch track and outto Carson Ravine. We'll load
text: the DeLorean onto the tracks here, on Carson Spur. The train
text: leaves the station at 7:57 tomorrow morning...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Whew, I'm glad it’s before 8.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Indeed. So: we'll hijack — uh, borrow the train, uncouple the
dialog: cars from the tender, throw the switch track, and then we'll
dialog: butt the locomotive against the DeLorean. You'llget in the
text: DeLorean while! run the steam engine, pushing the
dialog: DeLorean along Carson Spur. I'll open up the throttle, putting
text: her into a full highball, climb to the front of the locomotive,
text: jump onto the DeLorean and getin, in time to reach 88 miles
dialog: per hour, atwhich time Mr. Fusion will kick on the flux
text: capacitor, generating the traditional 1.21 jigowatts which will
dialog: send us back to 1985.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What's that red x on the windmill?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: That's our failsafe point — the point of no return. Up until
dialog: there, we still have enough time to stop the locomotive before
text: it plunges into the ravine. But once we pass that windmill, it’s
dialog: the future or bust.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Into the ravine? You mean there's no bridge?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: They just started building itlast month, and it won't be
dialog: com pleted until next year. But it still exists in 1985, safe and in
dialog: use. So as long as we hit 88 miles an hour before we reach
dialog: the edge of the ravine, we'llinstantaneously arrive ata point
dialog: in time when the bridge is completed: we'll have track under
text: us and coast safely across the gorge, putting us right near the
dialog: Hill Valley Airport.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What about the locomotive?
speaker_heading: 518
speaker_heading: 518-A
speaker_heading: 519
dialog: 520
dialog: 520-A
text: Doc winds up the toy locomotive, and sets it on the tracks: it pushes the wooden model
text: DeLorean. As it reaches the edge, Doc picks up the DeLorean while the locomotive falls off,
text: crashing to the floor.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It'll be a spectacular wreck. Too bad we won't be around to
dialog: see it.
speaker_heading: OMITTED
scene_heading: EXT. GENERAL STORE — DAY
text: MARTY, now dressed in western clothes, comes out of the general store carrying some food
dialog: items.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: MARTY walks down the street, being careful to avoid stepping in the horse dung.
text: As he passes the BUTCHER SHOP, a CHICKEN runs out, chased by the BUTCHER with an
speaker_heading: AXE.
text: Then Marty notices the BARBER at the aide of the BARBERSHOP chiseling lettering on a
text: TOMBST ONE: “Here lies...” It's the exact size and shape of Doc’s tombstone.
text: Marty pulls the Polaroid from his pocket and compares the two. Identical.
text: Marty gulps and steps over.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Who died?
speaker_heading: BARBER
dialog: Nobody... yet. But tomorrow’s the 13th, and on the 13th of
dialog: every month, Black Biff kills somebody, whether he needs to
dialog: or not.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah...
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKSMITH SHOP
text: Marty is about to enter the shop. He steps back from the door and goes around to a window
text: and peeks in.
scene_heading: INT. BLACKSMITH SHOP (MARTY'’S P.O.V.) — DAY
text: CLARA is in here with DOC.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: . And I've decided not to leave town tomorrow after all. I’m
dialog: going to stay in Hill Valley.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: You are??
dialog: (smiles weakly, feigns pleasure)
dialog: | mean, you are?
speaker_heading: 518
speaker_heading: 518-A
speaker_heading: 519
dialog: 520
dialog: 520-A
speaker_heading: 520-B
speaker_heading: 520-C
speaker_heading: 521
text: She kisses him.
text: Doc blushes.
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKSM
dialog: MARTY sighs, ci
dialog: the street.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: (nods)
dialog: So I'd like to accept your invitation to go to the barn dance
dialog: Saturday night, and I'd a1so like to cook you Sunday dinner.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Oh, well, that’s... wonderful...
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: You see, | decided you were right about staying in Hill Valley.
dialog: This town does have a future. The children need me and,
dialog: well, of course, you're here.
speaker_heading: ITH SHOP 520-B
text: oncerned. The sound of CHISELING continues and Marty looks back down
scene_heading: MARTY'S P.O.V. OF 520-C.
dialog: the BARBER, sti
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN TR,
speaker_heading: DOC and MART
dialog: from the wagon
text: ill chiseling the tombstone.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: ACK — DUSK 521
text: Y offload the DeLorean from a wagon onto the train tracks: rails run down
text: tailgate to the tracks. Doc and Marty give the DMC a push and it rolls down
text: the rails, right onto the track.
text: Doc is in a funk.
text: Marty looks at him with knowing concern.
dialog: Long pause.
dialog: Marty shows Dot
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc: you know you can’t stay. You dont belong in this time.
dialog: you're supposed to get shot tomorrow, remem ber?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: But since | know I'm supposed to get shot, | can prevent it. All
dialog: | have to do is get out of town for a day or two and lay low. By
dialog: the time the 14th rolls around, I'll definitely be out of danger
dialog: and | can...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: See Clara again?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: She's a very special woman, Marty, the type I've been looking
dialog: for all my life. Now that I've found her, | want to spend my
dialog: future with her.
dialog: c the Polaroid.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But, Doc, this is your future if you stay here.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Not necessarily, Marty. The future isn’t written. It can be
dialog: changed. You know that. Anyone can make their future
dialog: whatever they want it to be.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Look, Doc, maybe...| don't know ifit's right, but maybe we
dialog: could take her with us...?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: To the future?
text: Marty nods. Doc thinks about it, then shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I'm a scientist, Marty, so | must be scientific about this. |
dialog: cautioned you about disrupting the continuum for your own
dialog: pers onal benefit; therefore, | must do no less. We shall
dialog: proceed as planned. And as soon as we return to 1985...
dialog: (steps over to the DeLorean)
dialog: I'm going to destroy this infernal machine. Traveling through
text: time has become much too painful.
scene_heading: 522 EXT. WOODED AREA — “DELOREAN CAMP” — NIGHT
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 522
text: Doc sits near a campfire, poking atit with a stick. Marty's in his bedroll, bundled up, ready for
text: sleep. In the background, the DeLorean is on the train tracks.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: C'mon, Doc, get some shuteye.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I've gotta go back and say goodbye to her.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What are you gonna say: “I've gotta go back to the future ?” If
dialog: you tell her the truth, she'll think you're lying. And if you lie to
dialog: her, well, it’s just not right to lie to her. There’s just no way you
dialog: can make her understand this thing.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: She'll understand, Marty. | know she will.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No, she won't, Doc. Hell, I'm in it with you and | barely
dialog: understand it myself. You're better off doing nothing. You'll
text: just disappear, and she can draw her own conclusions.
dialog: Believe me, it'll be less painful that way.
text: Doc just sighs and stares at the fire.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 523
speaker_heading: 524
scene_heading: EXT. NIGHT SKY 523
text: A clear, beautiful star-filled sky.
text: We TILT DOWN to the CAMPSITE where the fire has burned out. *
text: Marty is sleeping. We pan over to Doc’s bedroll: empty.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOLHOUSE — NIGHT 524
text: Doc is talking to Clara in the doorway of the schoolhouse, by the light of a single fat lamp.
text: She's wearing a robe; we can see a back room off the classroom with a bed.
text: Clara is shocked at what Doc has said.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Goodbye? But Emmett, | don’t understand. | thought that
dialog: you... that you and I...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: | know, Clara, and | feel the same way about you, really | do. |
dialog: wish it didn’t have to be this way, but the factis, | don’t belong
dialog: here. | have to go back to... where | came from.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: And where would that be?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I'm afraid | can’t tell you that.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: But why not?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Because... because | can't, that’s all.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Please, Emm ett. If you sincerely do care about me, tell me
dialog: the truth.
text: Doc takes a deep breath. Should he or shouldn't he?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: The truth. *
dialog: (nods)
dialog: All right. I'm from... the future. And tomorrow, | have to go
dialog: back to the year 1985.
text: She stares at him for a long moment, then slaps his face.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: I’ve heard some whoppers in my day, but the fact that you
dialog: would expect me to entertain a notion like that for even an
dialog: instantis so degrading and insulting... All you had to say was
dialog: “| don’tlove you and | don’t want to see you any more.” That
dialog: at least would have been respectful.
speaker_heading: 525
speaker_heading: 526
speaker_heading: 527
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: But it wouldn't have been the truth!
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Goodbye, Emmett. That's what you want, so goodbye and
dialog: good riddance!
text: She slams the door in his face.
text: Doc is heartbroken. His eyes well up with tears.
scene_heading: WIDER ANGLE — SCHOOLHOUSE 525
text: Doc stands there a moment, trying to think of something to do, something to say.
text: Finally, he turns and walks sadly away.
text: Thru the window, we can see Clara ather desk, sobbing.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET — SALOON — NIGHT 526
text: A dejected Doc saunters down the street and enters the saloon.
scene_heading: INT. SALOON — NIGHT 527
text: There is still some activity here, despite the lateness of the hour.
text: Doc sidles up to the bar.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Whiskey!
text: The Bartender pours a shot and puts it in front of Doc.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Leave the bottle.
text: The bartender puts down a full bottle.
text: Doc throws back the shot and pours himself another. A SALESMAN wearing a DERBY looks
text: over at Doc and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: It's a woman, right?
dialog: (at Doc’s nod)
dialog: | knew it. I've seen that look on a man’s face a thousand
dialog: times, allover the country. All | can tell you, friend, is that
dialog: you'll get over her.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Nope. Clara was one in a million. One in a billion. One in a
dialog: googol-plex.
text: Doc throws back a shot and pours another. Then he decides to drink straight out of the bottle.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 528
speaker_heading: 529
dialog: 530
speaker_heading: 531
speaker_heading: 532
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPSITE — DAWN
text: Marty stirs, gets up, looks around. He sees Doc's bedroll hasn't been skpt in.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc? Doc?
dialog: (rising alarm)
dialog: Doc?
text: Marty goes running down the train tracks toward town.
scene_heading: EXT. BLACK BIFF’S CAMPSITE — DAY
text: Black Biff is saddling his horse.
speaker_heading: CEEGAR
dialog: It's still early, boss. What's your hurry?
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: I'm hungry.
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKSMITH SHOP — DAY
text: Marty runs into the shop.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc? Yo, Doc?
text: Marty runs out again and down the street.
scene_heading: INT. SALOON — DAY
text: DOC is asleep in a drunken stupor, head on the table, empty bottle beside him.
text: Now MARTY runs in.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc! What the hell are you doing? We gotta get outta here!
text: Marty tries to revive him, but Doc is out of it. Marty looks at the clock: 7:40.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (to the bartender)
dialog: Coffee! Black!
text: BLACK BIFF and company are riding toward town.
speaker_heading: 528
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 529
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 530
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 531
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 532
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 533
speaker_heading: 534
speaker_heading: 535
speaker_heading: 536
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN STATION — DAY 533
text: CLARA walks up to the HILL VALLEY TRAIN STATION, carrying a SUITCASE.
text: She walks up to the ticket window.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: I'd like to buy a ticket on the next train, please.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: That'll be the 7:57 to Sacramento. It should be arriving in 9
dialog: minutes.
text: Clara looks atthe clock behind him. It’s 7:42.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SALOON — DAY 534
text: Marty props up Doc and puts a cup of black coffee to his lips. Doc sips and makes a face.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Son, if you want him to sober up fast, you're gonna need
text: something a little stronger than coffee.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What do you suggest?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: A BOTTLE OF TABASCO SAUCE 535
text: The Tabasco is on the bar: next toitis aJAR of JALAPENO JUICE, a bottle of MUSTARD
text: SEED, some CAYENNE PEPPER, part of an ONION, and VINEGAR.
text: The BARTENDER is mixing the ingredients in a glass.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: In about 10 minutes, he’ll be as sober as a priest on Sunday.
text: Marty checks the clock. 7:44.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 10 minutes. Why do we have to cut these things so damned
dialog: close?
text: The bartender hands the concoction to Marty, along with a CLOTHESPIN.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
text: Put the clothespin over his nose. When he opens his mouth,
text: pour it down his gullet. Then stand back.
scene_heading: EXT. SALOON 536
text: We hold for a moment, then we bear a bloodcurdling SCREAM from inside!
text: DOC charges out of there, his face bright red!
text: He runs over to a HORSE TROUGH, and sticks his head in!
text: He stands, takes a breath, then keels over!
text: Marty and the Bartender come out of the saloon and run over to Doc.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: That was just the reflex action. It'll take a few more minutes
dialog: for the stuff to clear up his head.
text: They start dragging him back to the saloon.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: 537 BLACK BIFF and his men ride past a sign: ‘Hill Valley City Limits.” 537
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 538 INT. SALOON 538
text: Marty and the bartender drop Doc in a chair.
text: There are a NUMBER OF PEOPLE in here.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You're sure doing a lot of business for this early in the
dialog: morning.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Always do right before a shooting.
text: Marty looks at the clock: 7:46.
speaker_heading: MARTY *
dialog: C'mon, Doc. Get sober!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 539 EXT. TRAIN STATION 539
text: Clara watches as the train approaches the station.
scene_heading: 540 EXT. STREET AND SALOON 540
text: Black Biff and his men dismount. Buck ties up the horses while Black Biff walks up to the
dialog: saloon.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: All right, Eastwood! It's Friday, and I’m calling you out!
speaker_heading: INTERCUT WITH
scene_heading: 541 INT. SALOON 541
text: Everyone becomes quiet All heads turn to look at Marty. Marty looks at the clock. 7:51.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Shit! He's early!
dialog: (yells out)
dialog: It's not 8 o'clock yet!
speaker_heading: 542
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: It is by my watch! Now let's settle this thing once and for all...
dialog: or ain't you got the gumption?
text: Marty gulps.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, listen. The truth is, I'm not a very good shot. So | forfeit.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: (to his men)
dialog: Forfeit? What's that mean?
speaker_heading: BUCK
dialog: Means you win without a fight.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Without shootin’? He can’t do that!
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Tell you what, dude. I’m only leavin’ one bulletin my gun. That
dialog: means | only get one try to put it thru your heart and you can
dialog: have six.
text: Biff unloads 5 bullets and throws them through the saloon doors.
text: They land on the floor near Marty’s feet.
text: Marty becomes aware that everyone's looking at him. He tries to ignore them.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: You know what | think? | think you ain't nothin’ buta gutless,
dialog: yellow turd. And I'm giving you to the count of 10 to come out
dialog: here and prove I'm wrong! One! Two! Three!
scene_heading: INT. SALOON 542
text: Marty is getting very concerned. Doc is still in a stupor. Marty slaps his face, trying to revive
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: C'mon, Doc! Sober up! Please!
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Four!
speaker_heading: TOOTHLESS
dialog: You'd better face up to it, son. ‘Cause if you don’t go out
dialog: there...
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF (0.S.)
dialog: Five.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What? What happens if! don’t go out there?
speaker_heading: MOUSTACHE
dialog: You're a coward.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF (0.S.)
dialog: Six.
speaker_heading: BARBER
dialog: And you'll be branded for the rest of your days.
speaker_heading: EYEPATCH
dialog: Everyone everywhere'l know that Clint Eastwood is the
dialog: biggest yellow belly in the west! So, here:
text: Eyepatch pulls his PISTOL and puts it on the table in front of Marty.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF (O.S.)
dialog: Seven.
text: Marty looks at the gun, then at the faces of the men in the saloon.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF (O.S.)
dialog: Eight.
text: They're all watching him expectantly. They don't like cowards. They all wanthim to take the
dialog: gun.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF (O.S.)
dialog: Nine.
text: They all want to see a fight.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF (O.S.)
dialog: Ten.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (to the men in the saloon)
dialog: Hey, | don’t cars what Tannen thinks! He’s a jerk! And | don't
dialog: care what anybody else thinks either!
dialog: (to Doc)
dialog: Doc, c’mon, snap out of it!
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF (O.S.)
dialog: D'ya hear me? | said, that's ten, you gutless yellow turd!
text: The men in the saloon shake their heads.
speaker_heading: MOUSTACHE
text: Tannen’s right. The runt’s yellow.
speaker_heading: EYEPATCH
dialog: The most sickening display of cowardice | have ever seen.
text: Now an IRISHMAN who has been in the background speaks up for the first time.
speaker_heading: SEAMUS
dialog: Is he now? Well, | say there’s a difference between being
dialog: yellow and being stupid. And only a stupid man would go out
dialog: and get himself shot for no good reason. No, sir, I'd say this
dialog: young fella’s gota noggin full of horse sense.
dialog: (to Marty, offering his hand)
dialog: Sir, 'm proud to make your acquaintance: McFly's the name.
text: Seamus McFly.
text: Marty is amazed to meet his ancestor who bears a striking resemblance to (George or Marty).
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Seamus McFly. Right... from Ireland. I've heard of you. You
dialog: started the whole family.
speaker_heading: SEAMUS
dialog: Beggin’ your pardon, sir, but I'm not yet married.
text: An attractive BAR GIRL (who looks quite a bit like Lorraine) is giving Seamus a flirtatious
dialog: smile.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You willbe. Listen, Seamus, buddy, is there another way out
dialog: of here?
speaker_heading: SEAMUS
dialog: Aye. There's a way through the back, there is. Right through
dialog: there.
text: Now DOC suddenly sits up, wide-eyed and sober.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc! You all right?
text: Doc looks around, gets his bearings, nods.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: | think so. Whew!! *
dialog: (rubs his head)
dialog: What a headache! | confess, the one thing | really miss here
dialog: is Tylenol.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: C’mon, we've gotta go out the back.
text: Marty helps Doc up and they move toward the back. Marty looks back at Seamus.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Thanks a lot! *
speaker_heading: SEAMUS
dialog: Sure’n you're welcome. *
text: 543 MARTY AND DOC break for it, out the back door, and run out into 543
speaker_heading: 544 THE STREET 544
text: DOC stumbles into some TRASH CONTAINERS, knocks them over, making a lotof NOISE.
text: BUCK reacts, comes around the corner, and spots them.
speaker_heading: BUCK
dialog: HEY!!!
dialog: Buck FIRES!
text: MARTY dives into the GENERAL STORE across the street.
speaker_heading: 545
speaker_heading: 546
speaker_heading: 547
speaker_heading: 548
speaker_heading: 549
scene_heading: INT. GENERAL STORE 545
text: Marty rams into a CAST IRON POT BELLIED STOVE, and the stove door falls off.
text: Marty catches his breath and realizes Doc’s not with him.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF (O.S.)
dialog: Listen up, Eastwood! | aim to shoot somebody today. I'd
dialog: prefer it be you. But if you're just too damned yellow, then it'll
dialog: have to be your blacksmith friend!
text: Marty looks out the window.
speaker_heading: OUTSIDE 546
text: Buck and Ceegar are holding DOC, and Black Biff holds a gun on him.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty, forget about me and save yourself!
text: Marty pulls out the Polaroid and shudders. He thinks.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: You got one minute to decide!
text: We hear the TRAIN WHISTLE in the distance and we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN STATION 547
text: Close on a CONDUCTOR.
speaker_heading: CONDUCTOR
dialog: All Aboarmdddd!!
speaker_heading: WIDER 548
text: The train lurches forward and slowly pulls out of the Hill Valley Station.
scene_heading: INT. SLOWLY MOVING TRAIN CAR 549
text: CLARA looks out the window, somewhat dazed.
text: In front of her is the SALESMAN who was drinking with Doc last night talking to the man next
dialog: to him.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: ...but this poor feller had the worst case of broken heart! ever
dialog: seen. Said he didn’t know how he'd get through the rest of his
dialog: life, knowing how much he'd hurt her. It kinda got me right
text: here, listenin’ to him go on and on about his Clara.
text: Clara reacts.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Excuse me, but was this man tall, with wild eyes, disheveled
dialog: hair...?
dialog: 550
speaker_heading: 551
speaker_heading: 552
speaker_heading: 553
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: You know him...
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: I'm... Clara...
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Well, Clara, if you have any feelings toward him whatsoe ver,
dialog: go find him. I've never seen a man more tore up or in love
dialog: than he was, and love like that doesn’t happen too often.
dialog: Whatever happened between you two, I'd give him a 2nd
dialog: chance.
text: With that, Clara stands and PULLS THE EMERGENCY CORD!
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Emmett!
scene_heading: EXT. THE TRAIN
text: The BRAKES lock up and the train screams to a stop!
scene_heading: INT. PASSENGER CAR
text: Passengers are thrown forward.
text: Clara pushes her way through to get off.
scene_heading: EXT. THE TRAIN
text: Clara gets off the train and runs toward town. Meanwhile, railroad personnel are trying to
dialog: ascertain the problem, who pulled the cord, why, etc.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: Biff waits impatiently in the street while his men hold Doc.
text: A number of onlookers crowd the doors and windows of the adjacent buildings.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: (yells)
dialog: All right, runt, time’s up!
text: MARTY steps out from behind a building far down the street. He’s wearing a serape and hat in
dialog: the Clint Eastwood tradition (these were items in the store).
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I'm right here, Tannen.
text: Marty’s hands are empty and he wears no gunbelt.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Where's your iron?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I’m not wearing one. | thought we could settle this thing like
dialog: men.
dialog: 550
speaker_heading: 551
speaker_heading: 552
speaker_heading: 553
text: With that, Marty clenches his fists.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: You thought wrong, dude.
text: Biff draws his pistol and FIRES right at Marty's chest! Marty falls.
text: Biff laughs . Biff walks down the street toward the fallen Marty. When Biff is almost to him...
dialog: Marty gets up!
text: Biff can’t believe it! He shoots again, but his gun’s empty.
text: Biff throws his gun down, rushes Marty and throws a punch into his gut — and howls in pain
text: with the CRACK of his knuckle bones!
text: Marty socks Biff in the face and kicks him in the groin. Biff goes down.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: Buck! Kill the blacksmith!
text: Buck pulls his gun.
text: Suddenly, an array of guns cock.
speaker_heading: SEAMUS
dialog: Sure’n I'd be droppin’ that gun if | were you.
text: Seamus holds a shotgun on him, and a number of men from the saloon all have guns pointed
dialog: at Biffs men.
text: Biff's men wisely throw down their guns.
text: Marty throws off his serape, revealing the CAST IRON DOOR from the pot bellied stove!
text: A BOY, 7, runs up to Marty, excitedly.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Wow! Armor! How'd you think of that, mister?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: | saw itin a Clint Eastwood movie.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Movie? What's a movie?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You'll find out.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (to the boy)
dialog: Move along, D.W., move along.
speaker_heading: BARBER
dialog: That little Griffith boy, can't hold him down.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You okay, Doc?
speaker_heading: 554
speaker_heading: 555
speaker_heading: 556
speaker_heading: 557
speaker_heading: 558
speaker_heading: 559
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Fine.
text: Marty takes outthe Polaroid.
speaker_heading: INSERT — POLAROID
text: The tombstone with Doc's name on it literally VANISHES from the photo, so that the picture
text: shows the other tombstones behind it.
dialog: BACK TO SHOT
text: Biff, stillon the ground, clutches his hand in pain.
speaker_heading: BLACK BIFF
dialog: It's broke! My gun hand’s broke!
speaker_heading: SEAMUS
dialog: Well, if you'd like to be tryin’ honest work, you can have a job
dialog: on my farm, sloppin’ hogs and washin’ wagons.
text: The TRAIN WHISTLE blows in the distance.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Can we make it?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: We'll have to cut ‘em off at Coyote Pass!
text: They run over to the horses of Biff and his gang. Marty and Doc each untie one, mount up and
dialog: gallop off!
text: And as they disappear down the street, CLARA comes running from around the corner.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Emmett??
scene_heading: EXT. THE TRAIN
text: The train is moving forward again.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODED AREA
text: Doc and Marty gallop through the woods.
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKSMITH SHOP
text: Clara runs into the blacksmith shop.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Emmett! Emmett!
scene_heading: INT. BLACKSMITH SHOP
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 554
speaker_heading: 555
speaker_heading: 556
speaker_heading: 557
speaker_heading: 558
speaker_heading: 559
dialog: 560
speaker_heading: 561
speaker_heading: 562
speaker_heading: 563
speaker_heading: 564
speaker_heading: 565
text: Clara looks around. No sign of Doc, but she notices the covered TABLE TOP MODEL. She
text: pulls off the cover and looks at it. She sees the point marked “Stop Train Here.”
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BOARDING THE TRAIN SEQUENCE
text: DOC and MARTY gallop toward the train.
text: The train is just ahead.
text: Doc and Marty pull alongside and ride even with the last (passenger) car.
text: Doc grabs for the ladder on the side of the last car and pulls himself aboard.
text: Marty follows suit.
scene_heading: EXT. ATOP THE MOVING TRAIN
text: Doc and Marty run across the tops of the cars toward the locomotive.
text: As they near the tender, they pull their bandanas up over their faces.
speaker_heading: IN THE LOCOMOTIVE
text: The ENGINEER and FIREMAN are busy running the train.
text: Suddenly, a GUN is thrust against the Engineer's head.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Do what | say and you won't get hurt.
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: Is this a holdup?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It's a science experiment. Stop the train just before you hit
text: that switchtrack up ahead.
scene_heading: EXT. IN THE WOODS
text: CLARA runs frantically through the woods.
scene_heading: EXT. THE TRAIN
text: The Train stops just before the switchtrack.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty: throw the switch.
dialog: (to the Fireman)
dialog: You: uncouple the cars from the tender.
text: The Fireman goes running back there to do it.
text: AT THE SWITCH TRACK
text: Marty yanks the switching mechanism, switching the main track onto Carson spur.
dialog: 560
speaker_heading: 561
speaker_heading: 562
speaker_heading: 563
speaker_heading: 564
speaker_heading: 565
speaker_heading: 566
speaker_heading: 567
speaker_heading: 568
speaker_heading: 569
dialog: 570
speaker_heading: 571
speaker_heading: 572
speaker_heading: 573
speaker_heading: IN THE CAB 566
text: DOC switches hats with the Engineer.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You can get off now.
text: The engineer jumps off.
text: Doc pushes the throttle forward and the locomotive and tender pull away from the rest of the
dialog: train.
text: MARTY climbs up onto the slowly moving train.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. DELOREAN ON THE TRACKS 567
text: The DeLorean sits on the tracks, undisturbed. The LOCOMOTIVE comes chugging along
text: behind it. The BRAKES squeal as the engine pulls to a stop just behind it.
text: CLARA is still running through the woods, comes to a bluff. Looking down, she can see the 568
text: ABANDONED TRAIN CARS with people milling around.
text: She keeps running.
scene_heading: LOCOMOTIVE AND DELOREAN 569
text: MARTY hands a LOG SHAPED OBJECT, tightly wrapped with cloth, up to DOC in the cab.
text: Doc has 2 others already on board.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What are these things anyway?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: My own version of “Presto Logs.” Compressed wood with
text: anthracite dust, che mically treated to burn hotter and longer. |
dialog: use ‘em in my forge so | don't have to stoke it. 3 of these in
dialog: the furnace will make the fire burn hotter, kick up the boiler
text: pressure and make the train go faster.
text: CLARA is still running. In the distance she can now make out the back of the tender. 570
text: MARTY climbs into the DELOREAN and gets behind the wheel. 571
scene_heading: IN THE LOCOMOTIVE 572
text: DOC pulls out his walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Testing, Marty. Do youread?
text: INTERCUT with MARTY, in the DeLorean, who has his walkie-talkie at hand. 573
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That's a big 10-4.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Then let's go home.
speaker_heading: 574
speaker_heading: 575
text: Marty shifts into neutral and releases the emergency brake.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Rea dy to roll!
text: Doc toots the WHISTLE, then releases the brake.
text: Air shoots out of the cylinders.
text: Doc opens the throttle.
text: The pistons push the wheels.
text: The locomotive inches slowly forward.
text: The cowcatcher bumps up to the rear of the DeLorean and pushes it forward.
text: Marty smiles.
text: CLARA comes running up just as the locomotive pulls away. She spots Doc on the locomotive!
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Emmett!!!
text: But Doc can't hear her over the sound of the train and his tooting of the whistle.
text: Clara chases after the slowly accelerating train and GRABS the ladder behind the tender.
text: SHE'S ABOARD! She sighs and catches her breath.
scene_heading: MOVING LOCOMOTIVE (INTERCUT WITH DELOREAN)
text: Doc calls into the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty: are the time circuits on?
text: Marty tums the lever. The displays come on.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Check, Doc.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Input the destination time: October 27, 1985. 11am.
text: Marty punches it up on the keypad.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Check!
text: CLARA climbs up onto the top of the tender, which is loaded with timber.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: EMMETT!!!
text: But Doc can't hear her over the chugging of the locomotive!
text: Clara walks across the wood, toward the locomotive, but loses her balance. She falls into the
dialog: woodpile.
text: The DELOREAN speedometer gauge is at 25.
speaker_heading: 574
speaker_heading: 575
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (into wakie-talkie)
dialog: We're running steady at 25 miles per hour.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: All right. I'm throwing in the Presto logs. Once they get going,
dialog: we'llreally get going.
text: Doc throws the wrapped logs into the furnace.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I'm coming aboard.
text: IN THE DELOREAN, Marty reaches over and opens the passenger side gullwing door.
text: Doc climbs out of the cab and along the side of the engine. Clara has regained her balance
text: and is again climbing across the wood in the tender toward the locomotive.
text: In the furnace, the cloth around the Presto Logs burns away and the logs themselves begin to
text: burn with a GREENISH FLAME.
text: Green smoke comes out of the smoke stack.
text: Doc sees it and smiles.
text: The locomotive PRESSURE GAUGE suddenly increases.
text: The locomotive accelerates!
text: The DeLorean digital speedometer shows 36...37...38... Doc is about halfway to the front of the
text: engine. The WALKWAY creaks and gives — the metal is brittle.
text: Clara makes it across the wood, and climbs down into the locomotive cab.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: EMMETT!!!
text: Doc can’t hear her.
text: She sticks her head out of the cab and waves at Doc.
text: But Doc is looking toward the front of the train.
text: Clara screams and waves wildly, but can’t get his attention.
text: Doc is just about to the cowcatcher.
text: The speedometer passes 45.
text: Clara blows the whistle.
text: Doc hears the whistle and suddenly realizes someone must be blowing it.
text: Doc looks back and sees Clara! He's totally astonished.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Clara!!!
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Emmett!!! | love you!!!
text: Marty looks back and sees Doc looking back. He calls into the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yo, Doc, what's happening?
text: The speedometer approaches 565...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It's Clara! She’s on the train!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That's impossible!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: She’s here! In the cab! I've gotta go back for her!
text: Doc starts to move back.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What are you gonna do?
speaker_heading: DOC
text: Hope that there’s enough time to stop the train and get her off
dialog: before we hit the bridge!
text: But Marty sees the WINDMILL up ahead — the failsafe point!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc! | see the windmill! And we're going 60! You'llnever
dialog: make it!
text: Doc looks and sees the windmill ahead... and watches as they speed past it.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Then we'll have to take her with us! Keep calling out the
dialog: speed!
dialog: (pockets walkie-talkie, yells)
dialog: Clara! Climb out here to me!
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: | don’t know if | can!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You can do it! Just don’tlook down!
text: Clara gulps and climbs out.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 65 miles an hour...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Good. You're doing fine! Nice and steady...
text: Clara scoots along.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Keep coming...
speaker_heading: 576
speaker_heading: 577
text: The ground is racing underneath. A fall means certain death.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 70!
text: Clara's foot reaches the brittle section. The platform cracks and breaks!
text: She loses her balance and SCREAMS!
text: She falls — but her leg gets caught in a metal brace, leaving her HANGING UPSIDE DOWN,
text: WITH HER HEAD INCHES AWAY FROM THE HUGE POUNDING PISTON WHEELS!
text: Doc is horrified.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: HELP!!!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 75!
text: She struggles to pulls herself back up, but she can't.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: Emmett!! Help!!!
text: Ahead, the ravine can be seen.
text: Doc looks back and forth, trying to decide what to do.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 80!
text: Clara's leg is slipping out of the brace.
speaker_heading: CLARA
dialog: I'm slipping!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc! Here! Catch!
text: Marty opens his gullwing door and throws Doc the PINK HOVERBOARD!
dialog: Doc catches it!
text: The speedometer reads 84... 85...
text: Through the windshield, the unfinished BRIDGE can be seen...
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON CLARA 576
text: hanging off the locomotive, terrified as she slips closer to the pounding pistons.
text: Suddenly, DOC appears and pulls her off of there!
speaker_heading: WIDER 577
text: Doc is on THE HOVERBOARO with an amazed Clara in his arms! He hovers clear of the
dialog: train...
text: The speedometer hits 88!
speaker_heading: 578
speaker_heading: 701
speaker_heading: 702
speaker_heading: 703
speaker_heading: 704
speaker_heading: 705
speaker_heading: MUCH WIDER 578
text: Doc on the hoverboard with Clara in his arms watches as...
text: The speeding locomotive pushes the DeLorean toward edge of the ravine, and
text: Fire appears around the DeLorean wheels, and
text: The coils glow blue, and
text: The flux capacitor discharges, and
dialog: The DeLorean is blasted back to future!
text: And then the LOCOMOTIVE GOES OVER THE EDGE OF THE UNFINISHED BRIDGE, INTO
dialog: THE RAVINE!
text: It is a spectacular train wreck, capped with a tremendous BOILER EXPLOSION!
text: Doc holds Clara tightly.
text: They kiss.
text: And then they hoverboard off into the western sky.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: (Scene numbers 579 — 700 reserved)
scene_heading: EXT. 1985 — CARSON RAVINE BRIDGE — DAY 701
text: The BRIDGE as it is in 1985 — completed, spanning the ravine.
text: 3 SONIC BOOMS and WHITE FLASHES and the DELOREAN reappears on the bridge
dialog: speeding along!
text: The DeLorean coasts safely across the bridge, to the other side of the ravine, decelerating.
scene_heading: EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS AT AIRPORT 702
text: The slowing DeLorean coasts along the tracks near the small local AIRPORT, toward a
scene_heading: HIGHWAY INTERSECTION.
text: The CROSSING GATES CLANG: they’re almost down.
text: TRACKING WITH THE DELOREAN 703
text: MARTY coasts across the highway intersection, smiling, thinking the crossing gates are down
dialog: for him...
text: Then we hear the sound of a DIESEL HORN. Marty looks ahead in horror:
scene_heading: HIS P.O. THRU THE WINDSHIELD OF 704
text: A DIESEL ENGINE bearing down on him!
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN TRACKS 705
dialog: The head-on collision is unavoidable!
speaker_heading: 706
speaker_heading: 707
speaker_heading: 708
text: The DeLorean slows, the gullwing door is thrown open and MARTY rolls out of the DeLorean
text: just as the Diesel engine SMASHES into the DeLorean, TOTALLY DESTROYING IT, sending
dialog: wreckage everywhere!
dialog: The Diesel keeps on going!
text: MARTY catches his breath and looks around. 706
text: Twisted metal debris and pieces of the DeLorean are strewn all over.
text: There are small piles of burning heaps.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, God, no! No!!!
text: Marty drops to his knees, weeping.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, Doc, it's destroyed. Just like you wanted.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. LYON GATES (1985) — DAY 707
text: A very depressed Marty McFly walks through the familiar Lyon Gates and down the street
text: toward his house.
text: Up ahead, BIFF’S AUTO DETAILING TRUCK can be seen parked. BIFF is waxing
dialog: somebody's car.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hi, Marty. How's everything.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (without any enthusiasm)
dialog: Fine.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Gone cowboy, eh?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah.
scene_heading: EXT. McFLY HOME, 1985 — DAY 708
text: Marty walks up his driveway. The garage is open and his black Toyota truck is in there.
text: But even the sight of his truck does nothing to buoy his spirits.
text: As Marty approaches the front door, GEORGE and LORRAINE pull into the driveway in their
text: BMW. They get out of the car.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Marty — what on earth are you wearing?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, that’s along story.
speaker_heading: LORRAINE
dialog: Where've you been? | thought you and Jennifer were up at
dialog: the lake.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jennifer! Oh my God, Jennifer!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 709 EXT. JENNIFER'S HOUSE — DAY 709
text: MARTY pulls up in his truck, gets out and runs over to the hammock. (There are now no
text: security bars on the window.)
text: He hesitates, then peeks into it: JENNIFER is just as he left her. Marty sighs relief.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Thank God!
dialog: (shakes her gently)
dialog: Jen? Jennifer?
text: She MOANS but does not revive. He tries again. No go. Finally, he kisses her full on the
dialog: mouth.
text: She awakens with a start — scared, then just confused.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Marty!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 710 INT. MARTY’S MOVING TRUCK 710
text: MARTY drives. Jennifer is beside him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: How do you feel? Are you all right?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: | think so, wow, | thought | was...
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: | guess it was a dream, but it was so real. About the future...
dialog: about us... and our kids. Our kids were a mess, and you got
dialog: fired... twas terrible.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, everything's fine now. Sort of...
text: Marty stops at a traffic light.
text: Now, a hot RED CAMARO pulls up alongside.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Hey, the Big M! How's it hangin’, McFly! Nice truck! Lets see
dialog: what she can do.
text: The driver is NEEDLES, 17: Marty’s future co-worker. He races his engine.
speaker_heading: MARTY
speaker_heading: 711
speaker_heading: 712
dialog: No thanks, Needles.
text: Marty pulls forward a few feet.
speaker_heading: NEEDLES *
dialog: C’mon, McFly. What's the matter: Chicken?
text: Marty tenses, then backs up even with Needles. Marty glares at him.
text: Jennifer reacts with concern.
text: Needles makes “clucking” noises.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Nobody calls me chicken, Needles...
text: Marty races his engine.
text: Needles races his engine.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Marty, don’t...
text: Marty puts his hand on his stick shift.
text: Marty looks at the stoplight. Red. The intersecting light goes from Green to Yellow...
dialog: Needles is ready...
text: Marty has his clutch down, ready to pop it.
text: The two vehicles are like animals ready to charge.
text: The light turns GREEN.
text: The Camaro roars off like a bat out of hell!
text: Marty’s truck just stays there.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: But I'm not stupid, either.
text: We hear a HORN HONK and a SCREECH OF BRAKES.
scene_heading: MARTY’S P.O.V. THRU THE WINDSHIELD 711
text: The Camaro narrowly avoids hitting a Rolls Royce that has pulled out of an intersecting
dialog: drive way.
text: MARTY is astonished. He sighs a “that was a close one” sigh. 712
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jeez! | woulda hit that Roll Royce!
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Rolls Royce?
text: She reaches into her pocket and pulls out the crumbled “You're fired” fax.
speaker_heading: 713
text: Jennifer looks at the fax page: the words “You're fired” vanish from it; in fact all of the printing
text: disappears! Jennifer examines it, amazed. It’s simply a blank piece of paper.
text: She shakes her head, not sure if she imagined it or what.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: It erased...!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Maybe our future hasn't been written yet.
text: She smiles.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN TRACKS NEAR AIRPORT (WRECKAGE SITE) — DAY 713
text: The DeLorean wreckage is still strewn along the tracks.
text: Marty's truck pulls up and Marty gets out.
text: Jennifer doesn't understand.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: What are we doing here?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I'll just be a minute.
text: Marty pokes through the pieces... a fender, a train wheel, part of a seat, a twisted piece of
text: metal that says “Mr. Fusion,” a section of the time displays: “Last time departed.”
text: Finally he finds what he’s looking for: the square case containing the FLUX CAPACITOR.
text: Marty picks it up and examines it. The glass cover is shattered, and inside, the flux capacitor is
dialog: broken.
text: Marty sighs.
text: Suddenly, there’s a TREMENDOUS SONIC BOOM.
text: Marty and Jennifer react with total incredulity at what they see:
text: A STEAM LOCOMOTIVE is there on the tracks and DOC BROWN is in the cab, wearing an
text: Engineer's hat.
text: Of course, it's been modified with big Tesla coils, condensers, and equipment that looks right
dialog: out of Jules Verne... including a Victorian style flux capacitor!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Marty! Itruns on steam!
text: With Doc in the cab is CLARA, and 2 BOYS, aged 4 and 6. And EINSTEIN, the dog. *
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Oh, I’m married now. Meet the family! Clara, you know, and
dialog: these are my boys: Jules and Verne! Boys, this is Marty. And
dialog: Jennifer.
text: Marty is dumbstruck.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hi.
text: Marty walks over to the locomotive and stares in awe... and joy in seeing the Doc.
text: Doc winks.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Doc... it's unbelievable. This is wonderful! And here | thought
dialog: I'd never see you again.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You can’t keep a good scientist down. After all, | had to come
dialog: back for Einstein. And | didn’t want you to be worried about
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Doctor Brown, | just want to know one thing: W hat happens to
dialog: Marty and me in the future?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: That's up to you. Your future hasn't been written — no one’s
dialog: has. For better or worse, your future is what you make it.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: So make it a good one. Both of you.
text: Marty puts his arm around Jennifer and smiles.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: We will, Doc. And what about you? Are you going... back to
dialog: the future?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Nope: already been there!
text: Doc pushes a lever: the locomotive wheels fold down, and the ENTIRE LOCOMOTIVE LIFTS
dialog: UP OFF THE TRACK!
text: MARTY and JENNIFER both watch in open mouthed disbelief!
text: DOC and his family wave to Marty as the locomotive ascends higher and FLIES OFF INTO
dialog: THE SKY!
scene_heading: ROLL END CREDITS.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
dialog: 
