speaker_heading: "BACKDRAFT"
dialog: Screenplay by
dialog: Gregory Widen
scene_heading: SHOOTING DRAFT
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - STORAGE ROOM - 20 YRS. EARLIER
text: Darkness. Then the GLINT of a flashlight. Its beam rocks
text: crazily to and fro across the inside of a small storage room
text: as we hear two children arguing.
speaker_heading: OLDER KID
dialog: You're doing it wrong.
speaker_heading: YOUNGER KID
dialog: Shut up.
speaker_heading: OLDER KID
dialog: You're doing it wrong.
text: It's hard, but we get a sense of the room in the whipping
text: beam of light. Huge, dark coats lined up like sides of beef
text: on steel batons. Bent, stained helmets hung like African
dialog: masks.
text: Beneath them BRIAN, 7, and STEPHEN, 12, are trying to struggle
text: into a pair of the ludicrously massive coats over their
dialog: pajamas.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: It doesn't go like that.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Who asked you?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: If you do it like that it'll open in
dialog: the fire. Then you'll get burned and
speaker_heading: DIE.
text: The door suddenly opens, morning sunlight roaring in. It's a
text: fire station storage room full of fire gear. A fireman stands
text: in the doorway, tall, athletic, their father; DENNIS
scene_heading: McCAFFREY.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: Who's going to die?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Brian. He's not doing it right, dad.
dialog: He never does it right.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: (gestures for them to
dialog: come out)
dialog: Well, let's have a look.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - DAY
text: The two boys tromp out of the closet. The rubber turn-out
text: boots are as high as their thighs. The ends of the coats
text: drag on the floor. They salute, Brian's arm just an empty
text: sleeve. Dennis kneels down and re-fastens Brian's coat.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: Your brother's right. If you don't
dialog: fasten these correctly they could
dialog: open and you'd get burned.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: And DIE!
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You wouldn't let me die, would you,
dialog: Dad?
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: McCaffreys are smarter than fire,
dialog: Brian.
text: (playfully slaps their
dialog: shoulders)
dialog: How 'bout lunch, huh?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Fireman shit?
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: Hey, what's with the mouth? Where'd
dialog: you grow up, a barn?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Firehouse.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: Cute.
text: -- The station suddenly fills with the BELLOW of an ALARM
speaker_heading: KLAXON.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Never fails...
text: A young fireman, ADCOX, appears with the dispatch card.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: Big deal?
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Medium deal.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: Want to come along, Brian? Watch the
dialog: old man earn his keep?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (pissed)
dialog: Dad!
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: You've come along a dozen times,
dialog: Stephen, give your brother a chance.
dialog: We'll be back in a few minutes.
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: How 'bout it, sport?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Sure!
text: Dennis scoops Brian up and loads him into the fire engine
text: cab. The other three firemen climb aboard and take their
dialog: places.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - DAY
text: There's a cough of diesel, a crunch of gears, and the engine
text: is pulling out of the station.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
text: Hit the button, Brian.
text: Brian stamps his foot on the siren button. The red light
text: snaps on, the siren growls and blares, and they're off down
text: the street. Brian turns around in his seat and, at the last
text: instant before the corner, makes eye contact with his older
dialog: brother.
text: They stick their tongues out.
scene_heading: EXT. CHICAGO STREET - DAY - 20 YRS. EARLIER
text: The engine howls its way through the city. Brian, sandwiched
text: between his father and Adcox, looks out in wonderment at
text: intersections zipping past like picket fences, at people on
text: sidewalks holding hands over their ears, at the red emergency
text: lights bouncing crazily off shop windows.
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING - DAY - 20 YRS. EARLIER
text: Lazy smoke curls out the second story of a commercial block.
text: Medium deal. The engine pulls up and the firemen are jumping
text: off like ship rats. Dennis opens his door, hops down, and
text: pauses just long enough to point a serious finger at his
dialog: son.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: Stay near the truck.
dialog: (winks)
dialog: And keep an eye out for us, huh?
dialog: We're short handed today.
text: Brian nods vigorously, taking the command seriously. Dennis
text: smiles and is off, dragging a hoseline with his crew toward
text: a doorway they disappear into. Brian climbs down from the
dialog: cab.
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: Don't stray too far, little man.
text: Brian smiles to the pumper operator. He just wants a better
text: look. And he gets it: Smoke turned evil and dark now, taking
dialog: on purpose.
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING - DAY - 20 YRS. EARLIER
text: There's a level of apartments above the storefronts. As Brian
text: watches, a window opens and out steps his father and Adcox
text: onto a small fire escape. Their attention's on the next window
text: over, out of reach, wrapped in leaky smoke.
text: Suddenly Dennis climbs up onto the fire escape railing, armed
text: with only an axe, and JUMPS across to the next metal balcony.
text: A ballsy, dangerous move. He kicks in the window, breaks out
text: the frame with his axe, and dives in.
text: A beat later he reemerges on the balcony with a terrified,
text: smudged little girl. He hands the little girl over the railing
text: to a fireman now coming up the more traditional way -- a
dialog: ladder.
text: Dennis's face lifts and grins at Brian; dirty, bigger than
text: life, invincible. He winks a wink only possible between
text: fathers and sons and he's gone again, back into the swirling
text: darkness. As Brian stands there, full of love, full of pride,
text: he sees a piece of awning along the roofline crack; releasing
text: a sickly yellow tongue of flame that slinks over the roof.
text: The flame seems to pause, to stare at Brian a beat. Shhh,
text: don't tell anyone. Brian is transfixed, his little head
text: staring up in astonishment.
text: Nobody else has noticed it.
text: Brian can see his father and Adcox through the window;
text: probing, looking for the flame lurking just above. Brian
text: starts to call out in a small, hesitant voice,
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Dad...
text: He tries to call louder... But suddenly everything is
text: happening very fast in slow motion:
text: -- Brian can see Adcox testing the ceiling with a pike pole
text: as Brian steps forward, under the power of a flame that
dialog: beckons him as --
text: Dennis suddenly THROWS his body against Adcox, knocking him
text: clear just as a flame EXPLODES DOWNWARD from the ceiling
text: fully against him as -- All the building's windows BLOW OUT
text: and it's like the sky's erupted for Brian, a burning hailstorm
text: that falls and pelts the ground around him. Plaster, wood,
text: and something metal that cracks against the pavement and
text: spins slowly.
text: A fire helmet.
text: And Adcox is coming out the door now, blackened and torn,
text: hopeless tears streaming down his face.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Get us some backup! We need some
dialog: goddamn backup!
text: And, spotting Brian, he runs towards him. And the helmet
text: spins and spins and Adcox keeps running, and the sky is
text: raining fire, and the flame on the roof has risen up now to
text: its full, horrifying size and it's laughing now, laughing at
text: the little boy as the helmet finally stops spinning, and we
text: read the printing on the neck guard.
speaker_heading: MCCAFFREY
text: And Adcox is sobbing and has his arms around the boy,
text: protecting him from the fire, the world, but it's like Brian
text: doesn't see him. He pulls away from Adcox, walks up to his
dialog: father's helmet, And puts it on.
text: The scene EXPLODES with a flash as a photographer captures
dialog: the instant.
scene_heading: INT. SEEDY APARTMENT - DAY
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. BRIAN'S CAR - DAY
text: Hold on the freeze-frame. Let it become an aged cover of
text: LIFE. The magazine jiggles and rocks and we see now it's
text: sitting atop a box of knick-knacks jostling in the back seat
text: of an aging BMW. There's plenty of other boxes here, a live
text: on the move, and in the driver's seat, BRIAN McCAFFREY, now
text: 27. There's piles of empty burger wrappers, Coke cans, and
text: Florida knick-knacks on the dash board; a little blow-up
text: palm tree, a cheesy hula girl emblazoned with "McCaffrey
dialog: High-End Stereo Sales".
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - MONTAGE - DAY
text: Brian and his battered BMW shoot past prairie, cow country,
text: nervous suburbs and finally a sign: WELCOME TO CHICAGO.
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY - DAY
text: Wind tugging at his bangs, Brian stares down at the graves
dialog: of Dennis and Mary Elizabeth McCaffrey.
scene_heading: INT. CHICAGO GAS STATION RESTROOM - DAY
text: In a crusty sink he combs his hair, knots a tie around his
dialog: neck.
scene_heading: EXT. CHICAGO FIRE DEPARTMENT TRAINING ACADEMY - DAY
text: Brian walks through its sculpted columns, straightening his
text: tie. He comes to a door, FIRE ACADEMY CHIEF. He takes a deep
text: breath, steadies his gaze, and enters.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE ACADEMY CHIEF'S OFFICE - DAY
text: The ACADEMY CHIEF sits at his desk going over a file. Out
text: the window can be heard a FIRE TRAINING CLASS in action.
speaker_heading: CHIEF FITZGERALD
dialog: Is this a joke?
text: Brian's sitting in the seat opposite.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: If it was a joke, sir, you'd be
text: laughing.
speaker_heading: CHIEF FITZGERALD
dialog: You walked out on this academy six
text: years ago. One week to graduation.
dialog: You think we forgot that? You think
dialog: I did?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I want another shot, Sir.
speaker_heading: CHIEF FITZGERALD
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Look, everybody remembers your old
dialog: man. Being his son, all you had to
dialog: do was breathe to graduate here.
dialog: Dead Hero Father Rule. But you blew
dialog: us off. Why should I take you back?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: If you remember, sir, my test scores
dialog: were in the top --
speaker_heading: CHIEF FITZGERALD
dialog: -- I don't give a damn what your
dialog: test scores were, maybe you could
dialog: have been a good firemen, but you
dialog: had your shot.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I need another one, sir.
speaker_heading: CHIEF FITZGERALD
dialog: Sorry, but it's out of my hands. Try
dialog: again next year.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: No, it isn't out of your hands or
dialog: you wouldn't even have met me. If I
dialog: push you have to let me back in.
dialog: Dead Hero Father Rule. Sir.
speaker_heading: CHIEF FITZGERALD
dialog: (simmers)
dialog: Even if you graduate this academy,
dialog: you've still got nine months of
dialog: probation. That's hard duty, son. If
dialog: you don't really love this job, it'll
dialog: kill you.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (rises)
dialog: See you Monday. Sir.
text: As we hear the BLOW OF A WHISTLE
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CHICAGO FIRE DEPT. TRAINING ACADEMY - GRADUATION DAY
text: And everybody lined up at attention in dress blues.
speaker_heading: CHIEF FITZGERALD
dialog: (at podium)
dialog: Though the world changes every day,
dialog: some things are truly forever:
dialog: Courage, devotion, and honor in what
dialog: we do. This class is a special one,
dialog: for we dedicate it to the three
dialog: firefighters that have fallen this
dialog: year: Donald Knowlton, Richard Walter
dialog: and Michael Petzold...
dialog: (silent beat)
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen, it is with
dialog: pleasure that I certify that Candidate
dialog: Class number 322, having successfully
dialog: completed all academy requirements,
dialog: are hereby graduated to the Chicago
dialog: Fire Department.
text: Candidates and their relatives CHEER and leap to their feet.
text: Something struggles inside of Brian. He doesn't stand at
text: first. Another Candidate, TIM, 20, looks at him strangely.
text: So does the Academy Chief, his eyes finding Brian's. And
text: Brian's standing slowly now, joining them...
scene_heading: EXT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT
text: An expensive one. We hear a window BREAK.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT
text: Through the dimness a file cabinet. An AXE SUDDENLY SLAMS
text: into it, RIPPING it apart. Files crash to the floor. And a
text: picture. 1970. Four young guys marlin fishing. Time of their
dialog: lives.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: And a GREY PUTTY being SLAPPED along the edges of a door.
scene_heading: INT. PUB - NIGHT
text: A split-level firemen's dive; complete with mounted axes and
text: personalized T-shirts from various engine companies proudly
text: declaring "LADDER CO. 6 -- AXE FIRST, HOSE LATER" and "CHICAGO
text: FD, 150 YEARS OF TRADITION UNIMPEDED BY PROGRESS".
text: Tonight the place is firmly in the hands of an army of
text: recently graduated candidates. A few on the back patio have
text: hooked up a charged hoseline and are taking potshots at
text: balloon targets, each other, the neighbor's cat. Brian and
text: Tim, still in their uniforms, enter from the street. Survey
dialog: the scene.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
text: Completely out of control.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: What the hell are we waiting for?
text: As they shoulder their way inside, another CANDIDATE appears
text: holding proudly a fistful of sealed envelopes.
speaker_heading: CANDIDATE
dialog: Hot off the presses, guys. Station
dialog: assignments.
text: Tim and everyone else but Brian eagerly tear into them. Brian
text: nonchalantly shoulders up to the bar.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: A beer, Willy!
text: The barkeep turns and smiles.
speaker_heading: WILLY
dialog: Well, if it isn't the littlest
dialog: McCaffrey.
dialog: (to candidates with
dialog: hose)
dialog: Hey! You break anything with that
dialog: you buy it!
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Sorry, there must be something wrong
dialog: with my eyes. I keep thinking that's
text: a fire department uniform.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: It's in my blood, Willy.
text: The candidates are ripping open their assignments, exclaiming
dialog: to each other: "All right! Engine 117! That's a slum! They
dialog: get cookers every day!". "Oh no, Engine 10, that's a nice
dialog: neighborhood"...
text: Willy turns to the bulletin board behind him and unpins a
text: stack of business cards.
speaker_heading: WILLY
dialog: Really. Well, let's have a look at
dialog: what else was "in your blood". I
dialog: always look forward to getting these,
dialog: they make such a nice collage for
dialog: the bar... "Assistant Director, Sales,
dialog: Aspen Snowmobile Tours..."
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Didn't offer the kinda growth and
dialog: challenge I need.
speaker_heading: WILLY
dialog: Uh huh. And "Pioneer's Pride, Mobile
dialog: Log Cabins". That was in your blood
dialog: about six months wasn't it?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Management were pin heads.
speaker_heading: WILLY
dialog: "Laguna Jamming, Custom Surfboards"?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Coffee sucked.
speaker_heading: WILLY
dialog: And just this year, "Brian's Sound
dialog: Spectrum". Your own company even.
dialog: Big step.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I was ahead of my time.
speaker_heading: WILLY
dialog: You know, I've got a perfect little
dialog: spot here for "Brian McCaffrey,
dialog: Fireman"...
text: Tim holds an envelope marked McCAFFREY out to Brian.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Aren't you even curious?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Engine 115, right?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (opens it, surprised)
dialog: How'd you know? These are supposed
dialog: to be sealed.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Lucky guess.
dialog: (winks)
dialog: And a case of scotch to a captain in
dialog: station assignments.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: You crooked son of a bitch. Why 115?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Lots of fires. They promote faster
dialog: there. Take a look at the last Lt.'s
dialog: list, half the guys on it came from
dialog: that battalion. Gotta think about
dialog: your future, Timmy. 115's the station.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Ah man, if you're gonna bribe your
dialog: way into a station, why not 17 with
dialog: me and your brother?
dialog: On Brian's reaction
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: A Porsche knifes through darkened streets. The DRIVER, 50,
text: is dressed for success. Pulling up to the brownstone we saw
text: earlier, he gets out and rubs his eyes. Another day in the
dialog: salt mines.
text: Climbing the short stairs, he sticks his key into the lock
text: and opens the door. It is the last thing he will ever do.
text: A THUNDERING EXPLOSION ENGULFS the stoop.
scene_heading: INT. PUB - NIGHT
text: The place is packed now with girls flirting with the
text: candidates, putting their helmets on, etc. The horseplay
text: around the bar suddenly stops at the sweet sound of a SIREN.
scene_heading: EXT. PUB - NIGHT
text: Everyone steps outside, cocks an ear. And here it comes, the
text: real thing, SCREECHING past in a full-tilt rush. Shouts and
text: raised toasts.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Hey, that's my cousin's company!
dialog: C'mon! Let's go!
text: As Brian turns, he suddenly confronted by an elderly
scene_heading: LITHUANIAN WOMAN.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Mrs. Viatkus...
text: She grabs his cheeks and rattles off in Lithuanian. Brian
text: can only smile. Then two attractive jean-clad legs step up.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Jennifer.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: You're back.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You look great.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Thanks for calling.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Uh... I've been sorta keeping a low
dialog: profile... the academy... I graduated
dialog: today.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Huh.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: So... I see you're still in the
dialog: neighborhood.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Not quite. Just visiting. I live in
text: Lincoln Park now.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah? What have you been up to?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I work for city hall.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Really? No kidding.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: What, you think I just dried up and
dialog: blew away when you left? The world
dialog: does turn once in awhile Brian, even
dialog: without your permission.
text: Just then, Tim OPENS UP the hoseline, DRENCHING Brian.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Don't want you overheating, Brian!
text: Brian ducks the stream and PULLS a length of hose near his
text: feet, FLIPPING Tim. Brian JUMPS him, shuts off the hose and
text: pins him to the pavement.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Okay okay! Uncle!
text: Brian walks back toward Jennifer
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: You've certainly matured.
text: She turns to leave.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Well, if nothing else, it's nice to
dialog: know we can still be friends.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I don't want to be your friend, Brian.
text: Another in a series of fire engines HOWL past. Tim grabs
text: Brian by the shoulder.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Let's go, man!
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS - NIGHT
text: Brian and Tim jump into Brian's car. They shoot blindly down
text: the street looking for the fire engine, running down red
text: lights or anything else that gets in their way. Brian suddenly
text: hits the brakes, SCREECHING to a stop. They roll down their
text: windows. Far off can be heard the wind-up of a siren.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (points)
dialog: That way.
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS - FIRE ENGINE - NIGHT
text: SCREECH. They fly around a corner, down a block, and there
text: it is, lights flashing up ahead. Brian GUNS it, roars up
text: alongside the fire engine. Tim leans out the window, shakes
text: a bottle of beer, and lets loose a foamy eruption in the
text: truck driver's face.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Tim! You crazy motherfucker!
text: But he's laughing.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: What'cha got?
speaker_heading: DRIVER
text: Box alarm. Walton Ave.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: We'll meet ya.
scene_heading: EXT. BROWNSTONE - WALTON AVENUE - NIGHT
text: As Brian and Tim pull up two engine companies are already
text: dragging lines toward the rolling brownstone we saw explode
text: earlier. Tim cheers the firemen on like a drive-in movie.
text: Brian watches the fire with uneasy fascination. Embers
text: whipping into the night, drifting to the ground around him.
text: One of the engine companies is entering the doorway now. He
text: watches as they willingly crawl into a place any sane person
dialog: would run for their life from. Jesus Christ. FLASH -- Brian
text: turns at the blinding snap of a camera. Several locals are
text: gathered around a parked car, some taking pictures. Brian
text: notices that right away. It takes a beat longer to notice
text: the CHARRED CORPSE stuffed head-first through the windshield.
text: It's the Porsche driver, his legs sticking out at crazy
text: angles. A dog barks furiously at it.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (also looking at body)
dialog: Man. Something sure put a crimp in
dialog: his evening.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
text: Backdraft.
text: The brownstone fire quickly transforms itself into noisy
text: clouds of dirty white steam. And one of the firemen is coming
text: back out now, walking toward Brian.
text: When he's just a few yards away he pulls off his air mask
text: and helmet and we shudder with Brian, because the man is a
text: dead ringer for HIS FATHER.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Well, look what we have here. Nice
dialog: costume. Rent it?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I want to thank you for coming to my
dialog: graduation, Stephen. It was a great
dialog: inspiration to me.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: So you're going to fight fires now,
dialog: huh?
text: He pats Brian's cheeks, leaving behind large charcoal smears.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (re smears)
dialog: Doesn't work on you.
dialog: (turns to leave)
dialog: See ya around, little brother.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Not likely.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (turns)
dialog: Well, see you're wrong already. Had
dialog: a talk with Chief Fitzgerald, and we
dialog: decided in the interest of brotherly
dialog: love, that maybe you shouldn't be
text: way over on the other side of town.
dialog: So starting tomorrow, your assigned
dialog: to company 17. My company.
dialog: (Brian's color drops
dialog: a hue)
dialog: One case of scotch, you're getting
dialog: cheap in your old age, Brian...
text: And Stephen turns for his own men, Tim staring at Brian as
text: clouds of smoke drift past like ghosts.
scene_heading: EXT. BROWNSTONE - ACROSS THE STREET - NIGHT
text: A flame LEAPS up into the foreground. Touches a cigarette.
text: The cigarette glows, lingers, then lowers slowly from the
text: mouth of RIMGALE, fifty-five years old and six and a half
text: feet of solid granite. Wearing a windbreaker and grey slacks
text: tucked into fire department rubber boots, he takes another
text: slow drag. Looks at the body stuffed into the windshield.
text: It's twenty yards away from the brownstone. Stephen looks up
text: as Rimgale drops the cigarette, crushes it with his boot,
text: and crosses the street to the building.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT
text: Charred walls hiss and snap in the steamy darkness. Rimgale
text: is there, gloomy in the beam of his flashlight. He crouches
text: down, plays his flashlight along the ruined baseboard.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: If you stare any longer Stevie, I'll
dialog: start charging you admission.
text: Stephen is leaning in the doorway, watching him.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Got a cause?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Are the glory boys actually showing
dialog: interest in Investigation's work? I
dialog: may have a stroke.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: The glory boys just want to finish
dialog: their report so they can go home.
text: Rimgale's flashlight finds a wall socket that he pries loose
text: and holds up to the light. He lowers it, takes in the walls,
dialog: the room.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: They're gonna have to wait a few
dialog: days on this one.
scene_heading: EXT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT
text: Tim's talking to his cousin. Brian hangs back, watches the
text: body-bag people load the Porsche driver into a meat wagon.
dialog: There's a still an audience for this, still stray dogs
text: circling and barking. Brian walks up, looks inside the car,
text: and sees on a seat the ragged remains of a FINGER.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (to coroner crew)
dialog: Hey, you forgot... this.
text: They're already climbing into the wagon. The driver smiles
text: creepily.
speaker_heading: CORONER DRIVER
dialog: We always leave something for the
dialog: dogs.
text: Brian looks across the fireground, sees his brother walking
text: back to the fire engine. They share a brief, edgy glance.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - DAY
text: A modest one. South-side Irish old fashioned. Brian walks
text: up. There's a little kid, about five, playing with a toy
text: fire truck on the drive.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey, Sean. What's goin' on, man?
text: The kid stares at him without a glimmer of recognition.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: It's Uncle Brian. Y'know.
text: He makes his hand into a talking puppet.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (bandito accent)
dialog: "Spinach? We don't need no stinking
dialog: spinach". Remember?
text: The kid drops his toy truck and flees inside.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Mom! Mom!
scene_heading: INT. HELEN'S HOUSE
text: Brian follows, sticks his head in the door.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hellooo...
text: A warm looking woman, 30's, HELEN, comes around the corner.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Brian?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hi, Helen. Man, you look great.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: You look like... Brian.
text: She gives him a tentative hug.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: 'Bout written you off. How long have
dialog: you been in town?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Four months.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Four months?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I know, I know, Should'a called.
dialog: I've been really busy. I joined the
dialog: fire department.
text: Helen's expression suddenly saddens.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Oh Brian...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You guys... you really know how to
dialog: put each other through it, don't
dialog: you?
text: The little kid is peeking fearfully from the kitchen doorway.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: That's Sean? Jeez, he's a giant.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Yeah, you'd be surprised what three
dialog: years can do to a kid.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Sean, come on out, man. What, you
dialog: forget your favorite uncle?
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Stephen told him you were killed in
text: a hot tub accident.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (intense)
dialog: Dad was kidding, Mom.
text: And the kid runs unexpectedly away, angry.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Well that's two things to strangle
dialog: Stephen for. Where is he, anyway?
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Stephen's not staying here now, Brian.
dialog: He moved out last April.
text: An embarrassed sting.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Oh, man, I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: You guys ought to try picking up a
dialog: phone once in awhile.
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - MARINA - DAY
text: A small one on the river. Several boats bob peacefully. Except
text: one. Raised high in dry-dock, it's an ancient fishing trawler.
text: Bachman-Turner-Overdrive drifts up from the galley on badly
text: fuzzed speakers as Brian climbs the ladder.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey.
text: Stripped to the waist, Stephen's bent-over cleaning out the
text: guts of the inboard motor. He looks confused to see Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I talked to Helen...
text: Wrong thing to say. Stephen turns back to his work.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: ...Man, I thought dad's boat was
dialog: finally retired to the family
dialog: graveyard. Don't you worry about
dialog: falling out of this thing?
text: Stephen straightens up, his forearms smudged with grease.
text: Brian admires the unwashed cereal bowls and peeling deck
dialog: paint.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I like what you've done with the
dialog: place.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: It's comin' along... want a beer?
text: Stephen tosses him a beer from the fridge. As Brian pops it,
text: he sees the small pile of city-issue gallon size cans in the
text: corner. Armorall, solvent, extinguisher foam.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Been ripping off fire stations?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: It's old stuff Adcox gave me that
dialog: the department was going to throw
dialog: out anyway. Still good enough though
dialog: for this tub.
text: Brian winces at the music coming out of shot speakers.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Bachman Turner Overdrive?
dialog: (looks through music
dialog: rack)
dialog: ...Buffalo Springfield?... Stephen
dialog: Bishop? Oh man...
text: Brian lifts one of the tapes -- an 8-track -- and holds it
text: carefully in his palm as if it were a rare and fragile relic.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: My God, an actual operating 8-track.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: What, you've never seen one before?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: In the Field Museum once.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: It works.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: It worked when you were in sixth
dialog: grade.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY
text: Brian opens the trunk of his old BMW. It's full of stereo
text: boxes marked BRIAN'S "SOUND SPECTRUM".
scene_heading: INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - CABIN - DAY
text: Brian's gutted the speakers and is re-wiring them.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: People actually used to pay you for
dialog: this?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Millions, Stephen -- And sexual
dialog: favors.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Sheep don't count.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah? What about Laura --
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: That was never proved.
text: Brian moves over to another speaker.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Why'd you come here, Brian?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I wanted to know why you messed with
dialog: my station assignment. I mean, is
dialog: this really gonna have to one of
dialog: those big brother -- little brother
dialog: "you broke my GI Joe and I'm still
dialog: pissed" games?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: What is it with you, man, huh? How
dialog: do you manage to keep coming up with
dialog: new and amazing ways to screw up?
dialog: That scotch bullshit? Am I really
dialog: supposed to believe you came crawling
dialog: back home because you suddenly felt
dialog: heart strings moan for the family
dialog: biz? You were bankrupt, man.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey! You don't know me --
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I know you cold, Brian. The scary
dialog: thing is, you probably could have
dialog: faked it for awhile. But you see, in
dialog: this job there's no place to hide.
dialog: Isn't like selling log cabins. You
dialog: have a bad day here -- someone dies.
dialog: And that's not fucking good enough.
dialog: Want another beer?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: So that's it? Big bad brother's gonna
dialog: ride my ass till I cough blood?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Big bad brother is going to treat
dialog: you like any other probie -- that I
dialog: don't think is going to make it.
text: Brian staples the last of the audio cord in place and switches
text: on the tape player. The cabin fills with sharp, crystal clear --
dialog: Stephen Bishop.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: There's only so much technology can
dialog: do.
dialog: (picks up his tool
dialog: box)
dialog: Thanks for the beer.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Thanks for the speakers.
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY
text: Brian climbs down off the boat. Looks up at Stephen.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Y'know, I told myself a million times
dialog: I didn't want to be a fireman. I
dialog: said bullshit to that line about
dialog: tradition and family legacy. I know
dialog: I split, and I know how you felt...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Yeah, you know. You know what it
dialog: felt like.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I gotta do this, Stephen. I gotta
dialog: know.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I think you're gonna find out, Brian.
dialog: Don't be late tomorrow.
scene_heading: INT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - MORNING
text: A simple one-room walk-up. A stereo blares Chicago blues as
text: Brian buttons up his uniform in the mirror. He steps back,
text: looks at himself, -- and oh man what the hell am I doing...
scene_heading: EXT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - STREET - MORNING
text: Brian climbs into his car, turns the key -- nothing. He gets
text: out, looks under the hood, then SLAMS it down in frustration.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATED TRAIN - MORNING
text: A pissed-off Chicago, hauling itself off to work in the
text: morning snap, passes by Brian's window. Tough Midwestern
text: brick. Tough Midwesterners. Heads-down in their 150 year war
dialog: with a wind committed to pushing the whole damn thing into
dialog: Lake Michigan.
scene_heading: EXT. EL STATION - MORNING
text: The train clacking away above him, Brian walks down the
text: sidewalk carrying his fire equipment. He turns a corner and
text: comes on.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - MORNING
text: Brian stands there. It's his dad's station. Turn of the
text: century abused. Sooty with stone gargoyles and a pair of
text: faded red doors that suddenly CRANK OPEN as Brian comes up
text: the drive. Fire engine 17 and ladder truck 46, lights
text: flashing, pull out onto the apron.
text: The fireman sticking his head out of the passenger window is
text: Stephen. One look at the silver trumpet on his collar and we
text: know this isn't Fireman McCaffrey but Fire LT. McCaffrey.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You're too late, probie.
text: Tim, in ladder truck 46, waves a small bye-bye as both rigs
text: begin heading down the street.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (chasing)
dialog: Goddamn it, Stephen...
text: Brian bolts full-out for the engine. At the last instant
text: before he falls on his face a fireman reaches out and drags
text: him aboard.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. FIRE ENGINE 17 - DAY
text: It's Adcox, the fireman from the first scene, now a veteran.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Why baby McCaffrey, how ya doin'?
text: The Pumper driver, SCHMIDT, pops in a howling ROCK TUNE as
text: they zoom off.
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: (re Brian to Adcox)
dialog: You know this rug rat?
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Know him? I practically raised him.
dialog: (Jewish mom)
dialog: And he never calls, he never writes...
text: Brian shouts over the noise to GRINDLE, 35, one more seat
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I'm Brian.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: I'm sorry.
text: Grindle sticks his nose out the window, sniffs, then begins
text: buckling up his coat.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Boys, I do believe we have a
dialog: barbecue...
text: As Brian and Adcox fasten up their own equipment --
scene_heading: EXT. FACTORY - DAY
text: Smoke pours with confused indecision from every window of a
text: five story factory as the pumper and ladder company pull up.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: (staring at confusing
dialog: smoke)
dialog: I hate it when we gotta fucking go
dialog: look for it.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to Schmidt)
dialog: Call in another alarm. We're gonna
dialog: need some back-up.
text: Everyone begins strapping on air tanks and masks. Adcox drags
text: the rig's suction line to the hydrant. A beautiful illegally
text: parked Mercedes is blocking the way.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: (to Stephen)
dialog: Oh these moments do try me...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (admiring car)
dialog: Be gentle.
text: Whistling to himself, Adcox SMASHES the brass coupling through
text: the passenger window, runs the line through and SMASHES it
text: out the other window before connecting up to the hydrant.
text: Stephen and Grindle pull hose off the bed and move out.
text: Brian's so jacked up he can't get his air tank on right.
text: Schmidt calmly helps him into his gear.
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: It's only rock 'n roll, kid.
text: Stephen, Adcox and Grindle are crouched at the door, ready
text: to go. Brian takes a hose roll and runs to catch up when
text: he's cut-off by dazed Latin workers shouting incoherently at
text: him in SPANISH.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hey, probie! How 'bout it, huh?
text: Brian pushes past the workers and takes his position on the
text: hose line. Stephen reaches over and re-adjusts Brian's air
text: tank strap.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You're doing it wrong.
text: Stephen eases the door open. Thick smoke rolls sickly out
text: over their heads.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Stay beside me.
dialog: And in they go...
scene_heading: INT. BURNING FACTORY - DAY
text: Inside the smoke is like liquid lead. Going by feel, they
text: hump the hose up one staircase after another, crawling on
text: their hands and knees toward a dull red glow. Turning a
dialog: corner, they enter
scene_heading: INT. BURNING FACTORY - A VAST ROOM - DAY
text: Totally ablaze. Brian looks up in wonder at the buffeting
text: waves of flame in the ceiling, at the SCREECHING timbers
text: crumbling to the white-hot floor. At the walls HOWLING in
text: bestial agony. It is the most horrifying, and wonderful thing
dialog: he has ever seen.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Wash it to the windows?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: No, we'll hit the son of a bitch
text: head on.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: It's gonna flash, Stevie. We gotta
dialog: get behind it.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Nah, listen to it. It's a pussy.
dialog: It'll just steam on us. It won't
text: flash. Go high in the ceiling.
text: Adcox and Grindle shrug and pull their helmets down tight,
text: expecting the worst. Adcox opens up the nozzle, turning loose
text: a high pressure BLAST OF WATER into the ceiling. The fire
text: SCREAMS in manic anger and HEAVES a cloud of HOWLING steam
text: that WHIRLS back and BAKES them like lobsters. Brian gasps
text: for air as swirling ash batters his facemask. A window
text: somewhere EXPLODES. Somebody shouts. Christ, you can't see
text: anything. Stephen HOOPS in victory.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to fire)
dialog: I knew you were a pussy! C'mon! Steam
dialog: us!
dialog: (to firemen)
dialog: Let's go!
text: The chase is on! Going for the throat while the fire's
text: confused and defensive, the firemen SCRAMBLE through the
text: boiling cloud. They hit it in the ceiling, in the walls,
text: forcing it back and back. It HOWLS and CLAWS in anger,
text: furiously throwing cinders and broken timbers in their faces.
text: The walls ECHO with its SCREAMS as it retreats to a corner.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Ya love it, probie?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I'm in heaven, Lt.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hook us up to a stand-pipe.
text: Brian runs back to the wall to hook up his hose roll to the
text: building water system. He goes to unscrew the cap with his
text: hydrant wrench but it keeps slipping off the nut.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Jesus, how 'bout man, huh? We're
dialog: gonna loose this!
text: Brian finally gets it hooked up and runs back.
scene_heading: EXT. FACTORY - OTHER SIDE - DAY
text: Tim and three guys from his ladder company, come up an
text: extended aerial ladder, CRASH through a window and
scene_heading: INT. FACTORY - DAY
text: begin HACKING their way toward Brian's company as -- BOOM!
text: It's a sudden, shattering vibration that shakes the building
text: to its foundations. Then, a sucking sound: RUSH-RUSH-RUSH...
text: Stephen speaks calmly into his radio handset.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hey Otis, is it...?
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: (into radio)
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Goddamn it, where's our backup?
dialog: Where's the second-in companies?
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT'S VOICE
dialog: Sorry, man. John Wayne time.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to firemen)
dialog: Dig in!
text: The firemen hesitate. PENGELLY, the Truck Company Lt., looks
text: at Stephen with concern.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Dig in, goddamn it!
text: The crews immediately gather in the center of the floor.
text: They turn over tables, chairs, anything to form a barrier. A
text: circling of the wagons. -- BOOM! rush-rush-rush -- BOOM!
text: Each louder than the last. Stephen and Brian are ducked behind
text: an overturned desk. Adcox and Krizminski clutch hoselines
text: like frontiersmen's Winchesters.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You're gonna love this.
text: -- rush-rush-rush -- CRAAAASH!! On an instant the world comes
text: apart as all four walls of factory windows EXPLODE in a hail
text: of glass. A wave of HOWLING FLAME POURS IN after it, SHRIEKING
text: and HISSING.
text: At the same moment, part of the floor beside a heavy sewing
text: machine GIVES WAY and a ladderman, SANTOS, FALLS THROUGH,
text: grabbing the edges at the last minute as flames BELLOW UP
text: from underneath. He SCREAMS as his grip loosens.
text: Grindle leaps to the ladderman's side, grabbing his arms and
text: coat. Brian hesitates just an instant and Stephen SHOVES him
text: out of the way to back up Grindle.
speaker_heading: SANTOS
dialog: Help... Oh God...
text: Adcox's taken the hoseline and is opening fire. Water and
text: flame crash and snarl across the floor in a blood curdling
text: ROAR. It's a thrashing, murderous standoff.
dialog: Stephen and Grindle have got Santos but the angle's bad.
dialog: Blow it now and all three could take a header. Santos is
text: panicking, losing his grip. Grindle bores his eyes into the
text: man's with the calm and conviction of Moses.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: You go, we go.
text: They may all die, but they won't leave him. He calms a little,
text: hangs on till they PULL him out of harm's way. Adcox continues
text: with the hose as suddenly, everyone HITS the deck as the
text: fire EXPLODES over them, BURSTING their coats into flame.
text: Tim's company opens up their line, WASHING everybody down
text: before CHARGING after the fire. A ladderman, NIGHTENGALE,
text: steps on Brian's back.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey!
speaker_heading: NIGHTENGALE
dialog: Sorry man, I thought you were dead.
text: Brian, stunned, sits up, his coat and helmet smoking. Stephen
text: seems totally unaffected and is already on his feet and over
text: the top of the barricade, the others backing him as he
text: mercilessly drives the fire back, trapping it finally into a
text: corner. The fire hisses, spits, shakes the walls with its
text: furious anger. But it's all bluster now, the fire's dying.
speaker_heading: PENGELLY
dialog: (ladder co. captain)
dialog: Stephen! BC's on the radio. Says
dialog: they think a civilian got left behind
dialog: downstairs.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Adcox! Take Tim and do a search.
text: Adcox leads Tim downstairs. Brian looks shaken up. Stephen
text: helps him roughly to his feet.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Don't you fold on me now, man.
text: Brian burns at that and shakes his brother's arm off.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Clear the hose for me.
text: Brian's walking over to clear the hoseline when he hears it.
text: small voice. Faint. "Help me..."
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey, I think it's coming from a
dialog: different staircase.
text: Nobody hears. -- Brian takes off down the other steps on his
dialog: own.
scene_heading: INT. BURNING FACTORY - DOWNSTAIRS
text: It's only the fire's ghost here, lazy and slow.
text: Off the corridor are rooms full of commercial sewing machines.
text: Brian enters one and drops to his knees.
text: Looks under a table, flashes his light behind a work stand.
text: Nothing. He turns to backtrack his way out when A TONGUE OF
text: FLAME suddenly LEAPS up through the floor in front of him,
text: cutting off the door. Brian lands on his ass as it hisses
text: and giggles and dances unreally in front of him.
dialog: I never forget a face, kid. -- That fire from childhood. He
dialog: could maybe force his way through but Jesus, the way it looks
dialog: at him --
text: -- Brian ROLLS away from it. Looks for another doorway --
text: And ends up in thick smoke. He drops to a crawl, stays on
text: his belly where the air's clear. When he sees it. Behind
text: some furniture. Something flesh-colored. Shit. It's a body.
text: He crawls up closer. It's a woman. Adrenalin pounding the
text: top of his skull off, he grabs her and stumbles back down
dialog: the hall, makes a turn --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I got one!
scene_heading: EXT. FACTORY - DAY
text: -- And now he's bursting from the building onto a short fire
text: escape, shouting at the top of his lungs.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I got somebody! I got somebody!
text: A sea of media flashbulbs ERUPTS in his face. The press have
text: arrived in force, crowding the street. Brian pushes through
text: them to a clear spot on the far side of the engine. Two fire
text: paramedics rush over as he lowers the figure.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Is she... Is she alive?
text: The paramedics suddenly stop their efforts. Turn to Brian.
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
dialog: I'm afraid you're a little too late
dialog: with this one.
text: They step aside. Brian looks down. The woman looks strange.
text: Mostly because she's a heavy store DRESSING DUMMY. The
text: paramedics burst into laughter. Brian, looking pale and
text: shaken, turns and walks away. He passes Grindle and Tim,
text: sitting on the pumper's tailboard helping the REAL woman
dialog: that was found inside.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Sorry to hear about the mannequin. I
dialog: heard you two were close.
text: Photographers have appeared and are flashing the woman. Dizzy,
text: Brian wanders off, tries to help out with the choking clog
text: of singed factory employees before finally turning quickly
dialog: into
scene_heading: EXT. FACTORY ALLEY - ACROSS THE STREET - DAY
text: Where he barfs his guts out in private. Doubled-over, one
text: arm on the brick wall for support, we see the raw terror.
text: The demons rushing out of him.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Shit...
text: Someone else does too. Jennifer. Dressed now in a long
text: expensive coat, she's standing at the end of the alley with
text: a clipboard. Brian, ashes smeared across an ashen face,
text: spittle on his chin, doesn't notice her.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (appearing beside him)
dialog: You all right?
text: Stephen isn't pale. He's flushed and buoyant. All this hasn't
dialog: taken anything from him. It's made his day.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah. Fine. I'm a little busy right
dialog: now.
text: Stephen leans against the wall. Folds his arms.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Y'know, you got an awful short memory
dialog: for direct orders. I told you to
dialog: stay beside me.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- C'mon, Stephen.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- You split the team, man. And what
dialog: was that crap with the standpipe?
dialog: You'd think you and a hose were never
dialog: introduced before.
text: Stephen turns to leave. Brian yells after him.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Goddamn it Stephen!
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- I told you to stay next to me!
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- I was doin' it! I was up there
dialog: fucking doin' it. You don't know,
dialog: man, you don't know what I did!
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: What you did was drop the ball,
dialog: Probie. Get that right.
speaker_heading: PENGELLY
dialog: (from end of alley)
dialog: Hey! Stevie! They're callin' for ya.
text: Stephen turns to walk away. Pauses.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Bet 30,000 dollars a year and twenty
dialog: two days a month off sounded pretty
dialog: good twelve weeks ago, huh?
text: As Stephen leaves, we see that Jennifer's been standing at
text: the end of the alley, listening to them. She's turns and
text: walks as Brian looks up. We register his surprise. He watches
text: her head toward a dynamic-looking guy in his 40s, ALDERMAN
text: SWAYZAK, surrounded by reporters.
scene_heading: EXT. BURNED BUILDING - FRONT - DAY
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: (to reporters)
dialog: Roger, Paul... How's it going, guys?
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Another fire in this district. Getting
dialog: to be Cinder Alley up here.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (walking up)
dialog: You used that last week.
text: She hands Swayzak a clipboard.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: (yelling down from
dialog: window)
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Hey! Probie! We're still workin'
dialog: here, man.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED BUILDING
text: Brian and the rest of the company rip open the walls and
text: beat the last weak flames in a final flurry of dingy sparks.
text: The moment the smoke clears just a fraction, cigarettes appear
dialog: in everyone's mouth. Was it good for you? The talk is easy
text: and obscene, the intense camaraderie of shared danger. Ash
text: clods are thrown playfully back and forth in the afterglow
text: of having taken on the worst there is and walking away one
dialog: more time.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: (to Adcox)
dialog: Stephen man, what's going through
dialog: that guy's head? Takin' it on in the
dialog: first room... this shit's happening
dialog: too often. It could've flashed.
dialog: Should've flashed.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: But it didn't. Guy knows.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Guy's lucky.
text: Adcox sees Brian. Smiles.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Hey, baby McCaffrey. First one's the
dialog: clincher. You did okay.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: My Lt. might have something to say
dialog: about that.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Ah, everybody screws up some, Brian.
dialog: You're working for the toughest Lt.
dialog: on the job. Saw him once pick up a
dialog: probie he thought was moving too
text: slow and throw him into a burning
dialog: building. It's just bad luck you're
dialog: family.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: John, when you're in there... in the
dialog: fire... do you ever see...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (from across room,
dialog: interrupting)
dialog: C'mon ladies, let's roll some hose...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (to Adcox)
dialog: -- Never mind.
text: Brian turns and sees out the window Jennifer and Swayzak
text: standing near Rimgale's red fire dept. sedan.
scene_heading: EXT. FACTORY - DAY
text: Rimgale walks up to his sedan.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Alderman Swayzak.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
text: Investigator Rimgale.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I need to get in the trunk.
text: Swayzak's leaning on it. We sense the dislike between them.
text: Swayzak steps aside. Rimgale pops the trunk.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
text: Awful expensive shoes to be wearing
text: at a fireground, Alderman. But then
dialog: I guess you haven't been to too many
dialog: fires.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I wanted to talk to you about Alan
dialog: Seagrave's death. We still haven't
dialog: gotten a fire report from your office.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: You'll have an answer as soon as I
dialog: do.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: People are asking how a prominent
dialog: taxpayer got stuffed through the
text: windshield of his own car. They're
dialog: asking me.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: --The point is, Investigator, you
dialog: haven't even told us yet if the fire
dialog: was accidental. We're starting to
dialog: get the feeling your office is
dialog: dragging out this case to embarrass
dialog: the Alderman because of his fire
dialog: dept. reorganization program --
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: -- You mean his firehouse closing
dialog: program, -- Don't you?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: We'd just be very disappointed if it
dialog: turned out your office was playing
dialog: politics.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: -- Because I'm not. I care about
dialog: this city, and I care about this
dialog: department --
text: Rimgale cuts him off with the shutting of his trunk lid.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (calm of a monk)
dialog: Alderman, I have a remarkably
dialog: uncomplicated job. To decide if a
dialog: fire's arson, and if so catch the
dialog: pain in the ass doing it. But to be
dialog: honest, if my methodical investigative
dialog: methods just happen to muck up the
dialog: campaign of certain mayor wanna-bees,
dialog: well, I guess I can't say I sleep
dialog: any less peacefully.
text: And he walks back to the burned building.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: I wish I could just fire the son of
dialog: a bitch.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hey! Swayzak!
text: Stephen's leaning out of an upstairs window. As the TV cameras
text: turn, he drops down onto a fire engine hose bed and pops
text: right into Swayzak's face with a murderous grin.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: We almost lost a whole company up
dialog: there, Swayzee buddy. Isn't any back-
dialog: up since you closed '33. And we really
dialog: appreciate it, the guys and me.
dialog: Honest. I know you've got my vote
dialog: for mayor.
text: Grindle and Santos start walking for Stephen. Brian's there,
text: following after them.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Look Lt., I'm on your side. If there's
dialog: a problem, please, work with our
dialog: task force to fix it.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Oh yeah, your famous task force...
dialog: three guys have already died this
dialog: year because of the cuts made by
dialog: your "task force"...
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Stevie, c'mon man...
text: Stephen silences Grindle with an outstretched hand. Swayzak
text: leans close, out of earshot of the cameras.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: You see that funny glow that's
text: starting to blink in the corner of
dialog: your eye, Lt? That's your career
dialog: dissipation light -- and it just
dialog: went into overtime.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: If anybody's light's gonna blink,
dialog: it's yours.
text: Swayzak holds his ground. It's a tense, out of control moment
text: between them. Rimgale turns from his work, watches Stephen
text: with concern. Adcox suddenly inserts himself face-to-face
text: with Swayzak and we see the raw hatred.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: You're in firemanland now, Swayzak.
dialog: Do yourself a favor and just walk
dialog: away.
text: Swayzak holds Adcox's gaze, then turns for his car. Brian
text: watches Jennifer climb in beside her boss.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: This is your city job?
text: Jennifer shrugs as they pull away.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - LATE DAY
text: Brian jumps down from the rig as it backs up the driveway.
text: Across the street a middle-aged woman flashes them from the
text: balcony of her apartment.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: That's Franny. She likes firemen.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Tim, fill out the alarm card.
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Clean the pipe poles, wipe down the
text: ladders and hang some hose.
text: Adcox watches Brian and Tim exchange looks. Tim shrugs. Brian
text: sighs and pulls out the pike poles, starts across the floor
text: before freezing suddenly at a murderous GROWL. Brian turns
text: and sees a DOG. Sort of. It has the rib cage of a wild beast,
text: fangs, long greasy hair. It blocks his way, SNARLING with
dialog: hate.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: That's The Thing. You can't stay
dialog: unless he likes you.
text: Slobber drools out of its mouth as it GROWLS.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Have you guys got something against
dialog: dalmatians?
text: Brian wipes some of the crusted grime from his face, looks
text: back and forth between Franny and The Thing, and sighs.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - BUNKROOM
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - LOCKER ROOM
text: Brian enters, strips down his battered uniform, and opens
text: his locker. The mannequin from the fire SPRINGS OUT, legs
text: spread. A sign taped to its mouth says: "TAKE ME BRIAN, YOU'RE
dialog: MY SUPERMAN!"
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - WASHROOM
text: Brian and the others scrub the morning's fire off their bodies
text: in the station shower. Tim keeps filling his mouth full of
text: water and launching it upward in a stream.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Do you have to do that?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (pumped)
dialog: Could you believe that fire? Man!
dialog: First day! There I was, Adcox and
dialog: me, pullin' that lady right out of
dialog: the fire's fuckin' throat! I love it
dialog: here -- No surround and drown for
dialog: this company. Fighting 17th! Goddamn
dialog: Stephen's amazing. You see how he
dialog: took that fire by the balls? I'm
dialog: gonna be that good some day, you
dialog: watch.
text: Brian compares himself to the praise heaped on Stephen.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Y'know what Stephen said to me, right
dialog: when all the shit was coming hard?
dialog: "You never know till the moment the
dialog: fire stares you down if you're just
dialog: gonna do this job or be great at
dialog: it".
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Ah man, is he usin' that line now on
dialog: you? What, you think he made that
dialog: little gem up? Jesus Christ, I used
dialog: to have to listen to my old man use
dialog: that every morning.
text: Brian shuts off his shower and walks out.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - BUNKROOM
text: Stephen sits alone at his bunk, slowly stretching a strained
text: and ruined back. He blows out a long, tired breath, and begins
text: working ointment into an anciently scarred and battered knee.
text: On the wall is a small glass case full of station memorabilia
text: through the years. There's a two battered fire helmets there,
text: set reverently on velvet. Beside it is a photograph of his
text: father. Grinning. Top of the world. He's wearing a T-shirt
text: proudly stenciled FIGHTING 17th.
text: Father and son exchange a long, awkward greeting.
text: In the doorway, Brian stands watching his brother, who not
text: even 40, suddenly seems an old and broken man.
text: The ALARM KLAXON suddenly sounds. Brian, just in a towel and
text: Tim, in boxers covered with little dinosaurs, dash for the
text: fire pole.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - APPARATUS FLOOR
text: Tim and Brian slide down and bounce off the floor.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: -- C'mon! C'mon! Go! Go!
text: Brian and Tim rush for their equipment. Grindle grabs their
dialog: arms.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: No! C'mon! This way!
text: He hustles them across the apparatus floor, through a doorway,
text: and into the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - KITCHEN/DINING AREA
text: The makings of a meal are laid out on the counter. Brian and
text: Tim come to a screeching halt. The rest of the station is
text: sitting calmly at the kitchen table, watching.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What's going on?
speaker_heading: PENGELLY
dialog: Dinner, Probies. Get started.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - KITCHEN
text: Tim and Brian, still in their boxers, set down plates of
dialog: food.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Better be good.
speaker_heading: SANTOS
dialog: Or we feed you to The Thing.
text: Everybody digs in. The table is a craze of half a dozen
text: different conversations. On the TV mounted above on the wall
text: are news shots of Seagrave's body sticking out of the
dialog: windshield.
text: Adcox stands and tinks his glass with a spoon for silence.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Gentlemen, please... As 17's official
dialog: toastmaster --
speaker_heading: SANTOS
dialog: And bullshitter.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Thank you, Santos. Did I happen to
dialog: mention that you were cut out of my
dialog: will?
dialog: (company laughs)
dialog: I think it appropriate that we
dialog: recognize the two asswipes -- I mean
dialog: probationary firemen -- among us who
dialog: today were baptized officially into
dialog: the world of Old Man Fire. First to
text: Tim, who despite being handicapped
text: at birth with a rather dull expression
text: and a really hideous pair of ears,
dialog: not only took on the beast but pulled
text: from its clutches -- assisted by a
dialog: more famous and brilliant firefighter --
dialog: me -- a kicking and screaming civilian
dialog: that will probably end up suing us
dialog: for breaking her fingernail.
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: And to Brian, who's own contribution
dialog: was both more beautiful and less
dialog: likely to sue.
text: Adcox puts his arm affectionately around the mannequin, seated
text: with honor at the head of the table. Right beside The Thing.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Y'know, when I heard that both
dialog: McCaffrey brothers were going to be
dialog: assigned together here, well, my
dialog: heart was filled with... a sudden
dialog: desire to transfer.
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: So raise a glass, lads. To funny-
text: looking Tim, and the McCaffrey
dialog: brothers, who despite years of getting
dialog: on each other's nerves have managed
dialog: with great effort... to still be
dialog: pissed off at each other. Gentlemen!
speaker_heading: COMPANY
dialog: (together, a toast)
dialog: Fuck you!
text: The klaxon suddenly rings. Two bells. The ladder guys groan
dialog: and get up.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Bye, boys.
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: (winks)
dialog: We'll keep it warm for you.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - BUNKROOM
text: Dawn lightens the room as Brian slowly opens his eyes and
text: sees in extreme, fish-eyes close-up: THE THING GROWLING at
text: him. Brian turns the other direction and sees Stephen, fully
text: dressed, standing over his bunk.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Clean the toilets.
scene_heading: INT. APPARATUS FLOOR
text: Bleary-eyed, the nine firemen line up raggedly in front of
text: their rigs, dressed like shit but for peaked uniform caps
text: they wear only at this moment. Stephen stands before them,
text: does a quick glance up and down the line.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Okay, company dismissed. -- See ya
dialog: guys tonight at Fitzgerald's
dialog: retirement party.
text: They shuffle for the door. As Brian passes,
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You want a ride?
scene_heading: EXT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - MORNING
text: Stephen pulls up. Brian opens the door.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Brian --
dialog: (a beat that hangs
dialog: there)
dialog: -- See ya tonight.
scene_heading: INT. RESTAURANT - RETIREMENT PARTY - NIGHT
text: That's been cleared out for a huge PARTY in full swing. An
text: Irish folk band cuts loose a merciless bagpipe beat. City
text: brass--including Alderman Swayzak -- a few reporters, firemen
dialog: and their families all mix together for this is a RETIREMENT
text: PARTY for the Captain Fitzgerald. Brian enters, seeks out a
text: beer at the bar. Stephen's there, swaying with what is clearly
text: not his first drink of the evening.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hey.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey.
text: CHEERS as a one joke gift after another is laid on the Chief.
text: Stephen sees his ex-wife, Helen, dancing with another man.
text: He turns away.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I gotta change the view...
text: Santos and Grindle walk up.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Heard you didn't make the list for
dialog: captain, man. I'm sorry...
text: Stephen just shrugs.
text: Brian sees Jennifer across the room. She looks great. Refined
text: as she expertly works the room, schmoozing and hugging and
text: calling various politicos by their first name.
text: As she speaks to one, a waiter offers a drink. As she accepts,
text: a bottle appears over her shoulder and splashes it with red
dialog: syrup.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (holding bottle,
dialog: interrupting)
dialog: With grenadine, right?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: When I was twenty.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Oooh, very sophisticated. Having
dialog: fun?
text: Her attention broken, the politico has slipped away. Annoyed,
text: Jennifer leads Brian aside and speaks low, but angrily at
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Look, I'm not the same girl who had
dialog: nothing better to do than wrap her
dialog: legs around you on a Saturday night.
dialog: This isn't about fun. I'm working
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Carrying Swayzak's notebook?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Let me tell you something. Martin
dialog: Swayzak is going to be this town's
dialog: next mayor.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah. Swayzak. Humanity's last hope.
dialog: How can you work for that guy?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Why do you think Marty came here
dialog: tonight? Because he cares about your
dialog: department. You don't know how hard
dialog: he works. You don't know about his
dialog: programs helping West Side --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- All I know is that his programs
text: are getting firemen hurt.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Bullshit. Marty's plan is only about
dialog: efficiency. I've got two cousins on
dialog: the job, you think I'd work for him
dialog: if I didn't believe in it?
text: Jennifer instantly cuts off as a well-dressed COUPLE passes
text: and switches stunningly into schmmoze-mode.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (to man)
dialog: -- Tom, how nice to see you. I know
dialog: Marty'll be very happy you came.
dialog: Thanks so much for the donation.
dialog: (to woman)
dialog: Marie... how's little Kevin? Really?
dialog: Seen the polls? This is the year...
text: They move away. Jennifer turns to Brian and switches just as
text: fast back to their argument.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: -- The thing that really makes me
dialog: angry is the way your union has --
text: Brian can't help it. He cracks up.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What was that? Oh man, you have picked
dialog: up a few moves since John Paul II
dialog: Boulevard.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Yeah, well I like to think I'm just
dialog: a little past hanging out on JP II
dialog: watching the Irish pick fights and
text: Litwalks barf in the planters.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I seem to remember some pretty good
dialog: nights on JP II.
text: Brian turns and walks away.
scene_heading: ACROSS THE ROOM
text: Adcox is talking with another knot of firemen. He's brought
text: a date, SALLY, a hot little number that has a habit of
text: standing on her tip-toes when she talks.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (looking at Swayzak
dialog: across room)
dialog: Yuck, what a scumbag.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: (to Santos)
dialog: Fuckin' city transferred Sally three
dialog: months ago out of parking violations
dialog: into Swayzak's office. Now I gotta
dialog: pay my own goddamn tickets and she's
dialog: stuck with an asshole.
speaker_heading: SANTOS
dialog: Pay more?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: No, but there's more exercise --
text: being chased around a desk.
text: There's a commotion at the other end of the bar. A group of
text: firemen have gathered around a weekly magazine.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Aw, I don't believe this shit.
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: Somebody get a shovel! You seen this,
dialog: Stephen?
text: As they hold it up to Stephen we see a photo spread titled
scene_heading: DARING FIRE RESCUE.
text: The first photo shows Brian rushing out of the burning
text: building with seemingly a woman in his arms. The second photo
text: shows the backs of Adcox and Tim's helmets as they
text: administered aid to the real woman they saved. The implication
dialog: is it's the same woman.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (reads)
dialog: "Probationary Fireman Brian McCaffrey,
dialog: on his very first fire, showed the
dialog: kind of bravery and courage of a
dialog: veteran firefighter when he risked
dialog: life and limb to double-check a
text: burning floor alone, emerging
text: victoriously with Anna Rodriguez, a
dialog: seamstress for the North Shore
dialog: Clothing Company... McCaffrey first
dialog: gained prominence as the subject of
dialog: a 1972 Pulitzer Prize winning
dialog: photograph taken at the scene of his
dialog: father's death..."
text: The old photo is there too. Brian and his dad's helmet.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Whadda we gonna do about this?
text: Stephen glances over the headlines.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Y'know, I think it's a union bylaw
dialog: that if a guy gets in the paper --
dialog: especially if it's bullshit -- he
dialog: owes the company a drink. In fact...
dialog: (motions to waiter)
dialog: ...I'll have a double. On the hero.
text: The other firemen jump in with drink orders. Dozens of them.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (confused)
dialog: What's going on?
text: Tim shows him the magazine. Brian reads with horror as
text: Alderman Swayzak appears beside him.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Brian McCaffrey, right?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Brian, this is my boss, Alderman
dialog: Swayzak.
dialog: (to Swayzak)
dialog: Brian's a big fan of yours.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah. Big fan.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: And I'm a huge fan of what you did
dialog: to save that woman, Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Uh, I think there's been a mistake.
dialog: I didn't save that woman.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: No need to be modest, Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: No, you don't understand, I saved a
text: mannequin.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: -- That really was incredibly work
dialog: you did. You and your brother,
dialog: fighting fires together, helluva
dialog: image, isn't it? You must feel lucky
dialog: to be assigned under his command.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Every little boy's fantasy.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Brian, let me come to the point. I'd
dialog: like to offer you a job.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I have a job.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: This one's still with the fire
dialog: department. One of our best
text: investigators, Don Rimgale, is working
text: on a very difficult, visible case
dialog: right now. We think he could use
dialog: another pair of hands and you're
dialog: exactly the kind of guy I want
dialog: representing us: An authentic hero
text: from a traditional firefighting clan.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah, we got all kinds of traditions --
text: like dying young.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Not every job in the fire department
text: comes with a tombstone, Brian. This
dialog: could be a great opportunity to
dialog: move... beyond a fire engine.
text: Brian looks at Jennifer, then smiles at Swayzak.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Thanks anyway, Mr. Swayzak, but fire
dialog: engines sorta run in my family.
dialog: Politics don't.
text: -- A man suddenly steps between them to pump Swayzak's hand.
text: Brian shakes his head and walks away. Swayzak shoots a
text: concerned glance at Jennifer. She catches up with him at the
text: buffet table.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Boy, took you all of thirty seconds
dialog: to blow that.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: C'mon Jennifer, he's just another
text: North-Side jag-off with a mouth.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Brian, do you always have to be so
dialog: stupid? Think about your future for
dialog: once.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: So now you suddenly care about my
dialog: future?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Look, I didn't mean to take a piece
dialog: out of you back there, I just thought
dialog: you'd call when you came back. You
dialog: didn't and...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't blow it just because of this
dialog: garbage between us.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey, sorry if I made you look bad in
dialog: front of your boss. But I'm not gonna
dialog: be a poster boy for him, I'm trying
dialog: to do something here. There's five
dialog: hundred smoke eaters in this room
dialog: that do that stuff for real every
dialog: day. Tell Swayzak to talk to one of
dialog: them.
text: Across the room, Stephen's at the buffet, watching Helen
text: dance with her fireman date, the drinks hammering him hard.
speaker_heading: PENGELLY
dialog: Aw man, how can she dance with that
dialog: guy?
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: I hate that guy. He's a dispatcher.
dialog: I hate his voice.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Whatever...
speaker_heading: PENGELLY
dialog: I mean, I know women have gotta bang
dialog: somebody, but why that son of a bitch?
text: Stephen gives Pengelly an icy, sideways look.
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: Hey Stevie, he's an asshole...
text: Stephen smiles and pushes off the bar -- right for Helen as
text: she dances.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Uh, Helen, I wanted to talk to you a
dialog: second about Sean...
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Stephen, I'm kinda busy here, can we
dialog: talk about this later?
speaker_heading: DATE
dialog: How ya doin', Stephen?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Jackson.
text: Jackson steers her away but Stephen isn't done yet. He dogs
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to Helen)
dialog: What's wrong with right now? He's
dialog: your son for christ's sake. He's --
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Hey, Stephen, what about that dumb
dialog: ass brother of yours, huh?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: ...Yeah?
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Savin' a mannequin... How fuckin'
dialog: stupid can a guy get?
text: Stephen suddenly PUNCHES Jackson.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You can't talk about my brother like
dialog: that...
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Here we go...
text: And Stephen PLOWS into Jackson. Another fireman JUMPS to
text: Jackson's aid. And Brian's there, defending his brother,
text: PUNCHING OUT a fireman. The crowd finally pulls the two apart.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: You're crazy, man!
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Leave me alone!
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Goddamn it, Stephen, lay off!
dialog: (Stephen calms a little)
dialog: You stupid dumbshit, you never know
dialog: when to fucking quit, do you? You
dialog: ever wonder why your career's in the
dialog: fucking toilet? Why you're gonna be
dialog: stuck a Lt. for life?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: No.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I need a drink.
text: Stephen takes a step for the bar -- then suddenly turns and
text: JUMPS Jackson again. Brian pulls him off and drags him for
text: the door.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You don't need a drink, man. You
dialog: need to get outta here...
text: As Jennifer watches Brian lead Stephen out the door.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (to Swayzak)
dialog: Ah those McCaffreys... just hate
dialog: leaving a party with anyone left
dialog: standing...
scene_heading: EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: Brian leads Stephen toward his car.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'm okay... leave me alone...
text: Stephen pushes Brian away and promptly stumbles to the
dialog: sidewalk.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: So you got a 'roid going with Jackson
dialog: or what?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Nah, he's nothin'. It's just
dialog: sometimes... sometimes you just gotta
dialog: punch somebody out, y'know?
text: Brian stands there and folds his arms.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I don't think I can get up.
text: Brian lends an arm.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Look, Brian, a photographer. Maybe I
dialog: can get on the cover of LIFE magazine,
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: C'mon, let's crawl home.
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - NIGHT
text: Stephen throws an arm over Brian's shoulder as he leads him
text: up onto the boat.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: ...Adcox, those guys...they don't
dialog: get it... it isn't the goddamn
dialog: promotion... or dad... I'm not my
dialog: old man, y'know? No fire's gonna get
dialog: me... I don't give a shit about being
dialog: a captain... it's just... it's just
dialog: they don't trust me anymore...
dialog: (blows out painful
dialog: breath)
dialog: ...they don't trust me anymore...
scene_heading: INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT
text: Brian's flops his brother on the bed. Unties his shoes.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: If you'd get out of my fuckin' way.
dialog: I could take my own goddamn shoes
dialog: off...
text: He clearly can't. Brian slips them off.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You're such a pain in the ass...
dialog: You've always been a pain in the
dialog: ass...
text: There's just a grim wall lamp above Stephen's face.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Jesus, it's too damn bright in here...
dialog: Like a goddamn spotlight... I'm goin'
dialog: blind...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (touching light)
dialog: This?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Yeah... too bright...
text: Brian turns off the dim light. Stephen's breathing deepens.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: They don't know... they don't know
dialog: what I hear in there...
text: Brian tucks the blanket around him.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: ...This boat could be okay, huh?...
dialog: Take it out weekends... Sean 'n me...
text: Stephen's voice drifts off into sleep. Brian watches a moment,
text: the rare look of peace on his brother's face, then leaves.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE ACADEMY - NIGHT
text: Dark and still. Brian, carrying a roll of hose, scales the
dialog: chain link.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE ACADEMY - EXERCISE GROUND - NIGHT
text: Is a practice stand-pipe. Brian counts down to himself, then
text: rushes the stand-pipe, spinning off the cap with a hydrant
text: wrench and attaching the hose coupling. He does it again,
text: over and over.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE ACADEMY - DAWN
text: The sky's gone pink and blue as Brian climbs back over the
text: fence. Adcox, coming out of a donut shop across the street,
text: sees him.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - CHICKEN ACCIDENT - DAY
text: A truck has JACKKNIFED across the avenue and SPILLED its
text: contents -- several THOUSAND baby chicks. They're scurrying
text: everywhere as Brian's company tries to round them up. It's
text: hopeless as the exhausted firemen stuff handfuls of the
text: cheeping cargo into their turn-out coats. There's ghetto
text: kids all around, grabbing at the chicks, grabbing at the
text: fire engine.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (at kids)
dialog: Hey! Knock it off!
text: Brian stops a beat. Rubs his eyes.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Maybe you should have gotten more
dialog: sleep last night.
text: Brian looks at him. Does he mean what he thinks he means?
text: Tim is coming out of a small store across the street. He
text: hands a small bag of groceries to Adcox.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: This everything you wanted?
text: Everyone grows suddenly silent.
scene_heading: EXT. WIDOW'S HOUSE - DAY
text: A fireman's without even saying so, "Petzold" on the mailbox,
text: Engine 17 parked out front. Brian's alone outside, cleaning
text: the diesel fuel off his arms. Watching a small kid playing
text: with a toy fire truck in the drive.
scene_heading: INT. WIDOW'S HOUSE
text: Tim and Brian are loading the groceries into the fridge.
text: Stephen and Grindle are fixing a loose cabinet door as Adcox
text: sits caulking a faucet fitting at the kitchen table with a
text: young WOMAN.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: (to Stephen)
dialog: Can I help you guys at all?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Nah, we just about got it.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: (noticing Adcox's
dialog: shirt)
dialog: Sally must be finally ironing your
dialog: shirts.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: It's just new. Couple'a shifts and
dialog: it'll be as thrashed as the rest.
text: The sight of uniform is too much for her. Her eyes cloud.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: I'm sorry...
text: Adcox reaches out and lets her weep on his shoulder.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: It's okay...
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: I miss him... I just miss him,
dialog: y'know?...
scene_heading: EXT. WIDOW'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Adcox stands out at the fire engine smoking a cigarette,
text: lost in himself, watching the little boy play with his toy
text: fire truck. Stephen's followed him out.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: This job... This fuckin' job
dialog: sometimes... To buy it trying to go
dialog: the extra yard, man, that's one thing,
dialog: but to buy it just because there
dialog: wasn't any back-up... it's bullshit...
text: Stephen leans down close.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Yeah, it's bullshit. So what? Fuck
dialog: Swayzak. Fuck 'em all. We don't go
dialog: into fires for them. You know that.
dialog: Christ, you taught me that.
text: A beat of understanding between them. Stephen looks back at
dialog: the house.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You know Knowlton pretty well?
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Kind of an asshole, wasn't he?
text: Adcox can't help but smile.
speaker_heading: AXE
text: Biggest in two battalions.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (beat, smiles)
dialog: We're gonna be okay, man...
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - DAY
text: As Brian and Tim scrub down the fire engine, the rest of the
dialog: company lies sprawled in
scene_heading: THE STATION REC ROOM
text: Watching a weepy soap. Schmidt walks through and is snared
text: by the TV's glow. He hesitates. Shares the moment.
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: Is she going to get the divorce?
speaker_heading: SANTOS
dialog: (sighs with honest
dialog: concern)
dialog: Hell if I know, man.
text: A ladderman, WASHINGTON, walks in with a memo.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Hey, Pengelly, you made the captain's
dialog: list!
text: Everybody clasps Pengelly on the shoulder. "Way to go". "All
text: right, man". Brian turns and sees Stephen out on the apparatus
text: floor, watching. Watches. Pengelly's younger than him.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - TRAINING BUILDING/HOSE TOWER - DAY
text: An expanse of concrete lying out back of the station. Built
text: in one corner is the concrete shell of a five story training
text: building, just wide enough for a stairway and room on each
text: level. Twenty yards away, Brian, Tim and Adcox stand ready
text: beside a pile of coiled hose rolls.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (looking at watch)
dialog: Alright... Go!
text: Tim picks up a roll of hose, 50 pounds, throws it over his
text: shoulder and runs with Adcox to the foot of the building.
text: There's a fixed standpipe that Adcox ties into as Tim drags
text: the other end inside and up a flight of stairs.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Go!
text: Brian lifts another hose roll under his arm and runs for the
dialog: building.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: That isn't a football, probie. Get
dialog: it on your shoulder.
text: Brian runs up two flights to meet Tim and connect his end.
text: Tim heads down for another roll as Brian drags his up another
dialog: two flights. It's a bitch.
text: Sweating, he barrels back down the stairs, passing Tim coming
text: up with another roll.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Having fun, fireman?
text: Tim flips him off. Brian laughs and sprints for another roll.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You're not breaking any records,
dialog: Brian.
text: Brian holds it under his arm and takes off. Stephen grabs a
text: roll himself, hoists it to his shoulder and runs alongside.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Your shoulder. Like this!
text: Brian lifts it to his shoulder.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Come on! Pick it up!
text: They come to the doorway. Instead of stopping, Stephen follows
text: Brian in and runs alongside up the stairs. Without a word
text: spoken it's become a race between them.
text: Brian's face explodes in sweat. His heart pounds as they go
text: up flight after flight. The hose rolls weigh a 100 pounds. A
text: thousand. Neck 'n neck all the way; grunting, their throats
text: burning, only one flight from the roof Stephen STUMBLES and
text: SCRAPES his leg. Brian pauses. Stephen's already back on his
dialog: feet.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Run, damn you!
text: Brian does, Stephen already gaining on him -- getting ready
text: to pass him -- when they burst gasping out onto the roof,
text: Brian the "winner" by a nose. Stephen drops his hose roll,
text: sticks his face into Brian's, -- And laughs. Unsure, Brian
text: starts to join in. Stephen stops suddenly.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Roll the hose.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What, are you kidding? By myself?
text: Adcox and Tim, down below, have already disappeared back
text: into the station.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You heard me.
text: We see now what Stephen apparently doesn't. He was scraped
text: badly, his pant leg torn and leaking dark circles of blood.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What, is it the stairs? Christ, I'll
dialog: let you win next time.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (in Brian's face)
dialog: You got a problem with drilling,
dialog: probie?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: No, Lt., I don't have a problem with
dialog: drilling. But let's just have one
dialog: drill. Not one for the company and
dialog: one for me.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Roll the hose.
text: Stephen turns and walks away. Brian stands there watching
text: him in blind fury, finally exploding.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Goddamn you Stephen, I'm not gonna
dialog: quit. You hear me!
text: An awkward beat between them that's interrupted suddenly by
text: the station alarm klaxon. Stephen smiles.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Well, thank God for fires...
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - HOSE TOWER - BELOW - DAY
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - NIGHT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - NIGHT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - FRONT DOOR
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TENEMENT BUILDING - DAY
text: Smoke and confusion. A MOTHER is screaming hysterically at
text: Stephen as he jumps down from the engine.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: (grabbing his coat)
dialog: My baby! My baby's still up there!
speaker_heading: BATTALION CHIEF
dialog: Hang on a sec, Stevie, we got a
text: hoseline coming.
text: Stephen doesn't even pause and enters the building. Brian
text: hesitates a beat, then follows.
scene_heading: INT. TENEMENT BUILDING - DAY
text: Where they bomb up a staircase just as a WALL OF FIRE LASHES
text: DOWN, KNOCKING them on their ass. Stephen jumps to his feet
text: with an axe as Brian struggles to get up.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Don't take that kind of shit from
dialog: it! Don't let it know you're scared!
dialog: Come on!
text: Stephen, with just his axe, CHASES up the stairs at the fire,
text: HAMMERING at the flaming boards. The fire retreats into
text: another room, SLAMMING the door shut behind it.
text: Brian struggles up the stairs. The two of them slide up on
text: either side of the closed door, Stephen cradling his axe
text: like a SWAT team shotgun. The door breathes in and out and
text: something animal scratches and snarls on the other side.
text: Brian can feel the panic rising in his throat. That thing
text: behind the door, that slobbering, evil thing. It wants out.
dialog: It wants... him.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Ready?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Christ, Stephen, let's wait for the
dialog: hose team...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Listen to it, Brian... Jump when I
dialog: say... It won't get us.
text: Stephen HAMMERS the lock with his axe and KICKS the door
text: open. A WALL OF FLAME ROARS out past their cheeks, then
text: BACKWASHES in.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Now!
text: Stephen picks up the door, and using it as a shield CHARGES
text: into the flames. Brian tries to follow but the fire WELLS
text: UP, cutting him off. He hesitates. It's that goddamn flame
text: again, leering at him. Daring him. It BUCKS suddenly, DROPPING
text: Brian to his knee. He GROANS in pain.
text: -- And now Adcox and Grindle are coming up the stairs with a
text: hoseline WASHING DOWN the room. Clouds of furious steam bellow
text: out and across the ceiling. Nobody could be alive in there.
text: Except Stephen. His entire outfit smoldering, he emerges
text: from the clouds like a fucking god, carrying in one arm a
text: gasping child.
scene_heading: EXT. TENEMENT BUILDING - AFTERMATH - DAY
text: Most of the firemen have gathered together for post-fire
text: coffee and stories. Brian sits off alone on the fire engine
text: bumper, apart from them. Santos walks up.
speaker_heading: SANTOS
dialog: They think she's gonna live...
text: Stephen walks up. Sits down beside him.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I waited... I would have fucking
dialog: waited...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: That's not what it's about, Brian.
dialog: The point is there was a kid in there.
dialog: And what if there'd been two? I went
dialog: in because that's what I do. It's my
dialog: way. It's dad's way. It isn't
dialog: everybody's way.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Dad's way? Where did he tell you
dialog: that? In a fucking seance?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You said you wanted to know something,
dialog: Brian. What did you learn today?
dialog: (Brian doesn't answer)
dialog: What do you say, Brian, huh? Time to
dialog: move on?
text: Brian lingers only a moment before standing.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You're right, Stephen... You win...
dialog: You're the best, man...
text: Brian hands Stephen his helmet and walks away.
scene_heading: INT. SWAYZAK'S OFFICE - DAY
dialog: There's only six like it in city hall, and this one has a
dialog: view.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY'S VOICE
dialog: (on intercom)
text: Brian McCaffrey on line two for
dialog: Jennifer.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I'll take it in my office.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
text: (turns to her and
dialog: smiles)
dialog: Go get him.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR/CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
text: Jennifer comes out of Swayzak's office and walks down to her
dialog: own.
scene_heading: INT. JENNIFER'S OFFICE/INT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: -- It's a tiny, bleak little rat hole. She picks up the
dialog: receiver...
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Brian?
text: We see Brian in his apartment.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I've been thinking about what you
dialog: said the other night... If the offer's
dialog: still on the table, I'd like to talk
dialog: about it.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ...Okay. I'll arrange things with
dialog: your assignment captain.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Marty's a good man, Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah...
text: Brian hangs up. He stares at it a moment, then SLAMS it
text: against the wall.
text: Jennifer stares at the phone with something almost like
dialog: sadness.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BROWNSTONE - DAY
text: Stephen drives past the burned-out brownstone that fried
text: Alan Seagrave. He parks in the alley behind, walks up the
text: building, and PULLS OFF a plywood sheet covering a blown-out
dialog: window.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY
text: Stephen walks through the creepy, brutalized silence. Back
text: to where Rimgale had focused his investigation that night.
text: He searches the floor, the wall, looking for something...
scene_heading: EXT. ARSON HQ/FIREHOUSE - DAY
text: A crumbling one in Chinatown. Brian checks the address on
text: his slip of paper. He stands there a beat, hating himself.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION/ARSON HQ
dialog: It's a regular station but for the rear that has been
text: converted into arson squad offices. As Brian approaches the
text: office door he can see Rimgale sitting at his desk. Standing
text: nervously beside it is a fresh-faced, uniformed PROBIE.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (to probie)
dialog: ...So stop me if I get this wrong...
dialog: The fire's almost out... You're
text: upstairs on the unburned floor
dialog: checking for heat. You've been told
dialog: by your Battalion Chief, your Captain,
dialog: by me, not to do anything up there
dialog: until ordered. But now the itch
text: starts, and all of a sudden comes
dialog: the Glory Boy Flash: Hey, I'm a hero.
dialog: Heroes don't just stand around. So
dialog: on your own you decided to punch out
dialog: a window for ventilation. Was that
dialog: before or after you noticed you were
dialog: standing in a lake of gasoline?
text: The kid is dying a thousand deaths of humiliation.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: You could've crispered half your
dialog: company with that little stunt, but
dialog: more importantly you wrecked the
dialog: physical evidence I use to prove
dialog: it's arson. You've made my day longer,
dialog: Probie. Go home and think about that.
text: The kid shuffles off hang-dog. Rimgale's angry gaze falls on
dialog: Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Uh, I'm Brian McCaffrey. Your new
dialog: assistant.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Your Dennis' kid.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I work alone.
text: And Rimgale walks into his office, leaving Brian marooned in
text: the doorway. Stepping behind a small partition, Rimgale
text: changes his shirt. Brian can just glimpse from where he stands
text: a horrible burn that has consumed most of Rimgale's stomach.
text: Rimgale catches the look.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Are you still here?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Get used to me, Inspector. I'm not
dialog: going anywhere.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Then go find a corner. I don't want
dialog: you in my way.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I think we should get something
dialog: straight here. I was assigned to
dialog: this office by the city.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Look, I knew your father, he had a
dialog: helluva reputation on this job. But
dialog: that don't mean you get any slack.
dialog: Swayzak sends you down here, okay, I
dialog: gotta eat you, that's the rules and
dialog: I got nothing to say about that. But
dialog: Swayzak or no, you live with me.
dialog: Step out of line, and I don't care
dialog: who knows you, I'll swing the hammer.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You think you're the first?
text: Rimgale glances at his watch, puts on his coat, and picks up
text: a small paper bag.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Where are you going?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Pest control.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MAX SECURITY PRISON - DAY
text: And the face of RONALD, an unremarkable man in his 40s.
text: Unremarkable but for laser eyes and two heavily bandaged
text: hands. Go wide and find him sitting in an institutional chair --
text: handcuffed, actually -- in an institutional hall. A uniformed
text: guard stands nearby as Brian and Rimgale come down the
text: corridor. Ronald smiles upon seeing Rimgale.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Shadow.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: How ya doin', Ronald. Staying
dialog: comfortable?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Didn't think you'd make it.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Wouldn't miss this for the world,
dialog: pal.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: (looking at Brian)
dialog: Who's this?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: He works for me.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Is he a fireman?
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: I like firemen.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: You like everybody, Ronald.
text: Ronald's eyes pick up Brian's name on his prison ID badge.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Brian McCaffrey...
dialog: (eyes light up happily)
dialog: Oh this is really a treat. Brian
text: McCaffrey. Lost a dad to the animal,
dialog: huh?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (heating up)
dialog: Hey, do I know you?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: You don't know him.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: I know you.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (to Ronald)
dialog: What the hell are you talking about
dialog: my --
text: Rimgale silences Brian with a threatening hand.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Knock it off. Now.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Tell him about me, Shadow?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Ronald here likes telephones. Used
dialog: to tape wooden matches to the bell
dialog: striker and wrap it in cotton. Came
dialog: up with a whole little thing there,
dialog: didn't you Ronald? When you got bored,
dialog: what did you do? You just started
dialog: making calls... mostly day care
dialog: centers and retirement homes, wasn't
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Did he tell you how we finally met?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Nobody cares, Ronald.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Oh, but it's a good story, Shadow.
dialog: You're depriving our famous young
dialog: friend here...
scene_heading: VOICE IN CORRIDOR
dialog: Okay... Ronald Bowland...
text: The cop helps Ronald to his feet and all four are marching
text: down the hall.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: It was on State Street, right?...
dialog: Just your basic warehouse torch for
dialog: the owner. Cakewalk. But the animal...
dialog: turned on me... 'Ol Shadow here, he
dialog: shows up -- whole place is going
dialog: like hell -- my hair, my hands...
dialog: could've just let the animal take me --
dialog: but Shadow, he's a good camper, so
text: he tries to pull 'ol Ronald out.
dialog: Guess he didn't notice the tub of
dialog: phosphorous next to me...
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Notice you're still a little shy
dialog: about rolling your sleeves up, Shadow.
dialog: Show him your stomach yet?
scene_heading: INT. PRISON - INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY
text: Ronald in the hot seat before a parole board, Rimgale and
text: Brian on the sidelines.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: ...All right, the parole board has
dialog: received Mr. Bowland's fitness report,
dialog: his ID-44, endorsement from his
dialog: section warden... Dr. Norris?
speaker_heading: WOMAN PSYCHIATRIST
dialog: As supervising psychiatrist I would
dialog: describe Mr. Bowland's progress as
dialog: remarkable. Taking into account his
dialog: disability and the six years already
dialog: served, I recommend parole.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Mr. Bowland, do you regret your
dialog: crimes?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Yes. I understand now the pain I
dialog: caused.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: If released, will you commit these
dialog: crimes again?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: I won't.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Do you consider yourself ready for
dialog: society?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Yes.
text: The parole board shuffles their papers. It's a done deal.
text: Rimgale suddenly stands and approaches Ronald.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Sure Ronald? You're ready alright.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Absolutely.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Excuse me, Mr. Rimgale.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Excuse me.
dialog: (to Ronald)
dialog: What do you do with little girls?
text: A tortured look comes over Ronald's face. He's holding back.
text: From the paper bag, Rimgale suddenly tosses a burned baby
text: doll in his lap.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: What do you do with them, Ronald?
dialog: Huh?
text: Rimgale then lights a cigarette lighter in Ronald's face.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: -- Burn them.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: And old ladies?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: -- Burn them.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: And the world -- the whole world.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: -- Burn it all.
text: The parole board stares, stunned. Rimgale stands.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: See ya next year, Ronald. Gotta go.
scene_heading: EXT. THEATRE BUILDING - DAY
text: A pre-war theatre closed with a sign: UNDER RENOVATION --
text: OPENING XMAS 1991. DAVID BENTON, mid-forties, climbs out of
text: his car and walks to the entrance with some rolled-up
dialog: blueprints.
scene_heading: INT. THEATRE BUILDING - DAY
text: Benton walks through the vast theatre and up to a beautiful
text: Art Noveau office door: DAVID BENTON, PRIVATE. He goes to
text: insert his key. Drops it. As he reaches down, we see a tiny
text: wisp of smoke SUCK back under the door. Benton sniffs, as if
text: he smells something, then shrugs and inserts his key. It'd
dialog: have been a good story if he'd lived longer.
text: The moment he pushes the door open It EXPLODES OUTWARD in a
scene_heading: ROARING FIREBALL.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THEATRE BUILDING - SUNDOWN
dialog: Later and engine companies have already knocked down the
text: building fire as Brian climbs out of Rimgale's red sedan.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (opens trunk)
dialog: Hey kid, c'mere -- At least make
dialog: yourself useful.
text: He starts handing Brian handfuls of equipment cases. Loaded
text: down, Brian follows Rimgale into the building.
scene_heading: INT. THEATRE BUILDING
text: Fire crews are at work in here, including Engine 17 at the
text: other end of the theatre. Brian's surprised to see them, his
text: eyes locking briefly with Stephen's. An ENGINE COMPANY LT.
text: walks up to Rimgale.
speaker_heading: ENGINE LT
dialog: We were lucky with this one. Could've
dialog: taken out the whole complex, but the
text: explosion blew out most of the flame.
dialog: Good for us.
dialog: (looks to body)
dialog: -- Not so good for him.
dialog: "Him" is our previous owner, David Benton, just his hands
text: and a leg showing from under the collapsed door. Rimgale
text: crouches beside it.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Turn this over.
text: Brian does. The corpse's keys are still in the lock. So's
text: Benton. Blown with such force he seems fused with the door.
text: On the door's edge Rimgale notices a small patch of melted,
text: sticky goo. With his penknife he scrapes a sample and seals
text: it in a glass vial, stands, and walks into the office.
scene_heading: INT. THEATRE OFFICE
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What do you want me to do with --
text: Rimgale, now inside, silences him with an outstretched arm.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: -- Shhh.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: What are you listening to?
text: Rimgale doesn't answer. His eyes drift over the scorched
text: walls as he speaks softly to them.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: You sneaky little son of a bitch...
dialog: Hide and seek... Come on, tell me
dialog: what I want to know...
text: He scratches at some soot. Smiles and lifts a small hand
dialog: recorder.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (business-like into
dialog: recorder)
text: Heavy smoke stains observed in entry
text: room. Demarkation line high. Fire
dialog: never got hot enough here to cook
text: soot off. It started somewhere else...
dialog: (walks down hall)
text: Less soot here. More heat.
dialog: (they enter back room)
dialog: And very little soot here.
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Get that couch out of the way.
text: Brian pulls it aside. The lower third of the wall is
text: completely untouched by soot.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: So you were happy here. Warm and
dialog: cozy and in no hurry...
dialog: (into recorder)
text: Soot high, clean unburned wall low,
dialog: indicates slow burn in thermal
dialog: balance.
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Find me some glass.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Glass?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Do we have a language barrier here?
dialog: Glass.
text: There's some on the sill of a blown window. Brian hands a
text: shard to Rimgale, who turns it over in his palm.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (into recorder)
text: Glass found in ignition room is in
text: small, thin pieces, indicating
text: explosion. Lack of discoloration
text: indicates a long, slow burn. Explosion
dialog: must of come after a slow burn.
dialog: (shuts recorder off)
dialog: You little tease... What were you up
dialog: to you little bastard, huh? What
dialog: made you that mad?
dialog: (then, an idea)
dialog: Or scared.
dialog: (switches on recorder)
dialog: It started in this room. Took its
dialog: time, hung out... but the air ran
text: out. It couldn't breathe. So it was
text: snuffed. But it wasn't dead... still
dialog: all that trapped heat, lying low,
dialog: waiting for some sucker to open the
dialog: door and give it that one gulp of
dialog: air...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
text: -- Another backdraft.
text: Rimgale turns to the wall, a section where the plaster is
text: severely damaged. He probes with a penknife.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Finish coat burned away... Severe
text: spawling of rough coat...
text: Rimgale follows the damaged wall down -- down -- to a melted
text: wall socket.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: That's our ignition point. Dig it
text: out. Carefully.
text: Brian chops it out from the wall. Rimgale crouches down,
text: peels back the melted faceplate and examines the wires. The
text: copper tip is severely melted. Rimgale sniffs the plug.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (into recorder)
dialog: Temperature in this room was about
dialog: 2000 degrees, but copper wire in
dialog: outlet is melted, which requires
text: 5000 degrees. An accidental short in
dialog: the plug could of created a spark of
dialog: 7000 degrees, hot enough to melt the
text: wire and start a fire.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: No it couldn't.
text: Rimgale shuts off the recorder. Stares down Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I mean you'd be right -- with normal
dialog: wire. But that's gauge ten in that
dialog: plug -- industrial stuff. Who knows
dialog: why they put it in here -- but it
dialog: won't melt at less than 12,000
dialog: degrees. And no natural spark short
dialog: of lightning gets that hot.
dialog: (Rimgale just stares)
dialog: In another life I was in high-end
dialog: electronics.
text: Rimgale opens a plastic bag and puts the plug inside.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (into recorder)
dialog: Have outlet analyzed for any traces
text: of flammable accelerants.
text: Rimgale stands and walks out.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Don't mention it.
scene_heading: INT. THEATRE BUILDING - NIGHT
text: Brian follows Rimgale down from the office into the vast
text: theatre. Walls hiss and spit. Brian's surprised to see his
text: former engine mates there, tromping and crunching their way
text: through broken glass, their flashlights like dancing
text: fireflies. Tim passes by.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey, Tim.
text: Everybody turns at the voice and the air suddenly chills.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (distant)
dialog: Brian.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Check the wall for burn patterns.
text: And Rimgale's off to another room. Brian turns and looks at
text: the wall. It's endless.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (to Tim)
dialog: So, you surviving without me?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: There's no replacement 'cause of
dialog: your boss' cuts, if that's what you
dialog: mean. If someone else goes out on an
dialog: injury we're really screwed.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Swayzak's not my boss.
text: Silence. Brian looks over the wall. A dirty puddle separates
dialog: him from it.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Ooooh, like the tie. Love the tie.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Grindle, scrape down that wall for
dialog: me, huh? I would myself, but the tie
dialog: 'n all, y'know...
text: Grindle stares at him a beat, then wordlessly steps into the
text: muck and pulls free a section of wall, dropping it on the
text: ground in front of Brian. Santos and Grindle look at each
dialog: other.
speaker_heading: SANTOS
dialog: Uh, Brian, if you're lookin' for
dialog: smoke patterns, there's some good
dialog: ones over here.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah? Where?
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: (as Brian walks over)
dialog: Little to the right... further...
dialog: further... Right behind there. Hey,
dialog: could you hand me that pike pole?
text: There's a pike pole leaning against the wall. Brian pulls it
text: aside. SPLASH -- The pole had been supporting a small, sagging
text: piece of ceiling that instantly collapses, dumping twenty
text: gallons of murky, putrid black water all over Brian's civvys.
text: Nobody laughs.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Sorry, maybe that wasn't it after
dialog: all.
text: Stephen appears around the corner. Sees what's happened.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: That's just about enough, guys, okay?
speaker_heading: SCHMIDT
dialog: See ya around, Brian.
text: They leave. Brian stands there, humiliated.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: What the hell's the matter with you,
dialog: huh? You're steppin' in the shit
dialog: again. You could've done it. You
dialog: don't want this.
dialog: (the suit 'n tie)
dialog: Wake up, kid.
text: Brian burns with shame and anger as Adcox walks away. Stephen
text: hands Brian a towel.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Here. Dry yourself off.
text: Brian snatches it from him. Glares at his brother.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Look, you are sorta making yourself
dialog: fair game.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Thanks for the insight.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Brian, look --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Just leave me alone, okay?
text: Brian walks away. Stephen calls after him.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hey, Bri... Rimgale's okay. I don't
dialog: get half the shit he's talking about,
dialog: but then everybody says the same
dialog: thing about me. Who the hell knows?
scene_heading: INT. HELEN'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Helen, Stephen's ex-wife, is sitting at her kitchen when she
text: looks up suddenly at a strange sound coming from the roof.
scene_heading: EXT. HELEN'S HOUSE - ROOF - DAY
text: On the short, sloping roof, Stephen stands hammering a shingle
text: back into place. Helen sticks her head out the dormer window.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Stephen, what are you doing here?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Fixing my roof.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: It's not your roof anymore.
text: He stops and tosses the hammer aside. Looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Where's Sean?
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: He's got piano lessons.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Oh yeah? How's he doing?
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: He's going to be a fireman.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Give up, babe. You can't fight it.
dialog: Believe me, my mom tried...
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Stephen, you gotta stop just showing
text: up on the roof like this.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I just wanted to, I don't know, not
dialog: exactly apologize for the other night --
dialog: especially since I don't remember
dialog: much of it --
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: -- You remember.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Yeah... I just thought I should say,
dialog: I don't know, something.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: The great communicator.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Sorry I hit Jackson.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: He deserved it. He was born deserving
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: He treats you okay?
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I treated you better.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: You treated me like shit.
text: But she smiles.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: You want some coffee?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Coffee? Nah, I gotta go.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: What's wrong, Stephen?
dialog: (looks at her)
dialog: C'mon, you only beat up the roof
dialog: when something's on your mind.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: How's Brian doing?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: He's out.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: I know he's out, but how's he doing?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Y'know, I treated him better than
dialog: any other probie I ever had. He
dialog: probably hates my guts, but I did
dialog: the best thing for him. I made him
text: finally look in the mirror.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Ah Stephen, that's what this is really
dialog: about, isn't it? You always have to
dialog: be right.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hey, I'm the first one to admit when
dialog: I'm wrong.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Yeah? When was the last time?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: In a fire? Never.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Look, I'm his brother. I care about
dialog: him, y'know? He was going to get
dialog: himself killed. Maybe not today,
dialog: maybe not in a year, but it would've
dialog: happened. And I couldn't -- I just
dialog: couldn't...
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: You can't keep being his father...
text: Stephen sighs deeply.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You know what I realized today? I
dialog: can't remember my dad's face anymore.
text: There's pictures of him staring at
dialog: me everywhere I go, but the guy behind
dialog: them... he's gone...
text: He sighs and hops down from the roof to the driveway.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'll see ya around, Helen.
text: She watches him as he walks lonely up the street.
scene_heading: INT. CITY MORGUE - DAY
text: A Lab Tech, RICCO, leads Brian and Rimgale through the autopsy
text: area till they come on two corpses lying side by side covered
dialog: in plastic.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: Okay, Alan Seagrave and Donald
dialog: Cosgrove...
text: If you say so. Brian's stomach does a half-gainer as he's
text: confronted by two hideously charred bodies.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: ...Both deaths due to close encounters
text: with stationary objects; office door
dialog: for Mr. Cosgrove, '89 Porsche for
dialog: Mr. Seagrave. No non-relevant traumas.
dialog: No significant blood toxicology.
dialog: Attitude of both trajectories
text: consistent with explosions.
text: Brian is discreetly avoiding his gaze, whistling quietly to
text: himself as he looks over specimen jars on a shelf.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: They ran the residue you scraped
text: from both crispers' front doors.
text: It's a combination of plumber's putty
dialog: and rayophene gum. Burns almost
dialog: completely away when you light it.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Putty? On both doors?
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: There's something else kinda
dialog: interesting...
text: Ricco lifts Benton's charred shoulder. Underneath we see
text: some of his clothes that have melted and co-mingled with his
dialog: flesh.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: See this?
text: A credit card has been fried right into Cosgrove's skin about
text: where his back pocket should have been.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: Guess he didn't leave home without
dialog: it.
text: Ricco erupts in a honking laugh, then switches instantly
text: back to a business tone.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: Anyway, down here, take a look...
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: McCaffrey, hold this for us.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Uh, I don't think that's in my
dialog: contract...
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I just re-wrote your contract.
dialog: C'mere...
text: With supreme reluctance Brian pulls the crisper's head and
text: shoulder away from the table.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: Jesus Christ, he isn't gonna try to
dialog: sell you insurance, lift him.
text: Brian gathers the torso up and hoists him higher.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: (to Rimgale)
dialog: See that patch of shirt? We wondered
dialog: about the discoloration so he ran a
dialog: spectro. On a lucky shot we picked
text: up some traces of Trychticholorate.
dialog: Nobody around here had ever heard of
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Trychticholorate? Alright, it's an
dialog: absorption catalyst in toxic waste
dialog: accidents. It's pretty rare, they
dialog: stopped making it a couple'a years
dialog: ago.
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: Probably got in Cosgrove's clothes
text: in a gas state from the fire.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: What the hell was it doing in the
dialog: fire?
speaker_heading: RICCO
dialog: That's your job.
text: At that instant, Cosgrove's eyes OPEN and his body SIGHS.
text: Brian DROPS the body in shock and backs away, stunned.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I asked you to hold him, not feel
dialog: him up...
scene_heading: INT. RIMGALE'S CAR - DAY
text: Rimgale's FD sedan. Brian is still wringing imaginary guts
text: off his hands. Rimgale tosses an open fire chem book in his
dialog: lap.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Read.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: "Trychtichlorate is a binary
dialog: structured --"
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: -- Go to the bottom. Under heat
dialog: properties.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: "During heat episodes of 2000 Kelvin
text: or higher, Trych breaks down and
dialog: dissipates. Will consume magnesium".
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Ever burned magnesium? It's so hot
dialog: it takes water molecules and BAMM!
text: Rimgale CLAPS his hands next to Brian's head, STARTLING him.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Son of a bitch tears 'em apart just
dialog: to eat the oxygen. Wouldn't take
dialog: much at all to melt ten gauge wire.
text: Problem's burnt magnesium leaves a
dialog: powder trace -- unless you could
dialog: find something that would eat its
dialog: residue.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Trychticholorate. Then Swayzak can
dialog: announce Seagrave was a murder.
text: Rimgale looks at Brian. He's getting tired of this.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Look, it isn't proof, okay? Someone
dialog: may have put the chemical in the
dialog: outlet, but we found it as a vapor
text: in Cosgrove's clothes.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: And the putty around the door?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Even if it was used to seal the air
dialog: off, that doesn't explain why someone
dialog: would go to the trouble of a
dialog: backdraft. A gun's a helluva lot
dialog: easier
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: But the right guess on this is arson.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I don't guess.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Some people say you don't do much of
dialog: anything when it comes to this case.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I don't work for them, either.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - DAY
text: Brian's sitting at a desk. He's finishing up a huge paper
text: clip Tyrannosaurus. The phone RINGS.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Arson.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Straightest answer your department's
dialog: given me all week.
text: We see Jennifer's calling from her office, she's busy signing
text: papers brought to her and okaying campaign posters as she
dialog: talks.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: How's it going?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Boss and I are up to about three
text: words an hour.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (to secretary)
dialog: Green committed to a thousand.
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: There's another fund-raising party
dialog: tonight. Marty'd really like you to
dialog: come.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I don't know, I'm kinda swamped here.
text: He tosses a paper airplane.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I could use a date.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah? Well, maybe I can fit it in...
speaker_heading: RIMGALE'S VOICE
dialog: McCaffrey! Come here!
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Call ya back.
text: Brian hangs up quickly and walks back into
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - ANOTHER ROOM - DAY
text: Rimgale's there, crouched excitedly beside a trash can that's
text: lid's been sealed closed. He tamps a piece of putty on the
text: rim and backs away.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Take the top off. Go ahead. Take it
dialog: off.
text: Brian walks over and RIPS OFF the lid. -- Instantly a tongue
text: of flame SHOOTS straight up past his head and BLOWS out.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Jesus!
text: Rimgale's grinning like a little kid.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: That's it! Oh, that son of a bitch,
dialog: he's different, goddamn it! You see
dialog: what this tells us, huh? Our killer
dialog: doesn't love fire!
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (pulls out file)
dialog: I got it after we talked to Ronald.
dialog: Torches. Want to fry the whole goddamn
dialog: world. But the fires that killed
dialog: those guys never really burned up
dialog: much. -- The burns were all lit in
text: outlets surrounded by double
text: firebreaks in the walls. And he made
text: his burns backdrafts.
dialog: ([p. 78])
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: But he killed these guys.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: But he could have killed everybody
text: there. The firebreaks kept it from
text: spreading in the wall. The backdraft
dialog: blew out the flame. That's it. That's
dialog: the reason.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What reason?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Why backdrafts. Whoever fried Seagrave
dialog: and Cosgrove went to a helluva lot
dialog: of trouble to make sure they died by
dialog: fire, but also made sure the fire
text: blew itself out.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: That's why the sealant on the doors...
dialog: So what have we got, a torch with a
dialog: conscience?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: No, we have a stone killer trying to
dialog: make a point.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Are you going public with this?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: No. Do that and I guarantee you'll
dialog: scare him off. I don't want him
text: running away.
scene_heading: EXT. PARTY BOAT - NIGHT
text: A Latin band cuts loose as beautiful people mill about against
text: a beautiful Chicago skyline. An AIR HORN blows, and suddenly
text: the skyline is MOVING. We're on a huge, private party boat.
scene_heading: EXT. PARTY BOAT - NIGHT
text: Brian's leaning on the boat railing watching the passing
text: parade of rich and beautiful. Across the sea of champagne
text: and brie, he spots Jennifer talking with her boss, Swayzak.
text: He has his hand on her back.
text: Jennifer spots Brian. She smile, detaches herself and walks
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (eyes on Swayzak)
dialog: Hey...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So are you dating your boss or what?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: If you weren't at least the 300th
dialog: person to ask me that, I'd probably
dialog: be pissed.
dialog: (beat, sighs)
dialog: Boy, you sure know it's a man's world
dialog: sometimes...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Sorry.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Are you dating anyone?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: You think that's really any of your
dialog: business?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Well, you did invite me here.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Marty did.
dialog: (beat, smiles)
dialog: But I wanted you to come to.
text: Swayzak suddenly appears with his entourage.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Mr. McCaffrey...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Nice boat.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: It isn't mine.
dialog: (to photographer)
dialog: Let's get a picture.
text: Swayzak swings around and puts his arm cheesily around Brian's
text: shoulder. Another staffer slaps a SWAYZAK FOR MAYOR sticker
text: to Brian's lapel. Jennifer rolls her eyes to Brian. I'm
dialog: sorry... Snap.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: (seeing someone else)
dialog: Larry!
dialog: (sotto to Jennifer)
dialog: What does he do again?
text: Swayzak leads her off in pursuit. Left alone, Brian turns to
text: the railing, stares off at the passing city. You can hear
text: the wind-up of a siren.
text: And there it is now, an engine company zooming along Wacker
text: Drive. Something digs and kicks inside of Brian as he watches
text: it disappear.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: How's the job going?
text: She's appeared again beside him.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Boy, Rimgale's as slow as a snail,
dialog: isn't he?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: No, he's more of a dinosaur. Guy's
text: not a dummy, though. He's juggling
dialog: alot of balls on this one.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Yeah, but it doesn't take Albert
dialog: Einstein just to figure out if these
dialog: guys were killed by accidents or
dialog: not.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Jesus, give him a break. There isn't
dialog: enough proof yet to go public. Sure,
dialog: we found some chemical shit we think
dialog: somebody dumped in the plugs to torch
dialog: 'em, and we've maybe figured out why
dialog: backdrafts, but you can't rush this
dialog: stuff. Not 'till it's locked.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: But Rimgale's probably going to come
text: around to arson.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: In a dinosaur kinda way, yeah.
speaker_heading: BAMM!
text: Both of them look up sharply. A woman drunk out of her mind
text: has tipped over in her chair. She laughs, her fellow
text: tablemates laugh, everybody laughs. Jennifer takes Brian by
text: the arm in the opposite direction and smiles.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Save me.
scene_heading: EXT. PARTY BOAT - NIGHT
text: The band's completely cut loose now. A wild percussion rhythm
text: that has everyone on their feet dancing like madmen. Brian
text: and Jennifer stomp and sweat and shake and giggle through
text: hair crazily askew. The lakeshore is twinkling and wonderful
text: as it slips past. The drums beat faster and harder and the
text: only thing that isn't moving now is their eyes -- eyes locked
text: on each other.
scene_heading: EXT. ARSON HQ - NIGHT
text: Sweaty, flushed with the evening and a few drinks, Brian and
text: Jennifer pull up in her car.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Thanks for the invite.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Got anything to drink in there?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Oh, there might be something stashed
dialog: away for emergencies.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ/FIRE STATION
text: The regular engine company's gone to bed and the arson squad's
text: packed in for the night, leaving the apparatus floor quiet
text: and dim as Brian and Jennifer enter.
text: Brian leads her back past the engine and arson sedan to the
text: rear where Rimgale has his offices. As they walk Jennifer's
text: eyes drift up to the old sculpted parapets, the press-tin
dialog: ceiling.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: This is one of the oldest fire
dialog: stations in the city. Lotta tradition
dialog: locked up in here. What do you think?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Homey.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: See that trap door up there? That
dialog: used to lead to the hay loft when
text: they had horse-drawn engines. It was
dialog: pretty different then... but kinda
dialog: the same, y'know?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Do you miss it?
dialog: (he doesn't answer)
dialog: You seem like you do.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: When I came back, I knew more than
dialog: anything else that I wanted to be a
dialog: fireman.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Then why did you quit?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I wanted to be a good one.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - BACK OFFICES
text: They walk into the back arson offices. Brian pokes through a
text: few drawers, one or two shelves. Finally he lifts a squat,
text: specialized fire extinguisher. The bottom has been hollowed
text: out, leaving room for a fifth of bourbon.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Old firehouse trick.
text: He pours her a glass. Jennifer takes a generous sip of her's,
text: turns, brushes past him and breathes,
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: So show me your fire truck.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - APPARATUS FLOOR
text: Brian escorts Jennifer along the side of the behemoth.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Well, our specimen here is your basic
dialog: standard issue piece of primary
dialog: suppression equipment. This area is
text: the pumping panel, which controls
dialog: the rate of liquid insertion into
dialog: the hose.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Uh huh.
text: Brian lifts a narrow, tapered straight-bore nozzle.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
text: This is a six inch playpipe, cast
dialog: bronze to keep it firm during hard
dialog: flows.
dialog: (picks up another
dialog: item)
dialog: This is our pipe extender, used in
dialog: forward lays...
dialog: (moves on)
dialog: This is our hard suction line... Our
dialog: adjustable insertion nozzle...
dialog: (comes around back of
dialog: trunk)
dialog: ...And this is the hose bed.
text: Beat. The air cracks between them. And is brushed aside. In
text: an instant they're all over each other. Tangled lips and
text: gulping breaths. Jennifer abruptly breaks it off
text: -- And looks mischievously up at the hose bed, with its long
text: curling rolls of soft cotton.
text: Brian doesn't remember this precise scenario being discussed
text: at the academy, but he improvises admirably, popping up onto
text: the hose bed and offering a gentlemanly hand to Jennifer. As
text: they tumble into the soft folds
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT
text: Engine 17 roars up, lights flashing, to a high-rise. As the
text: crew jumps down Tim trips and falls flat on his face.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Jesus Tim, if you're going to kill
dialog: yourself at least wait till the fire,
dialog: it's better P.R.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - HOSE BED - NIGHT
text: Jennifer unbuttons Brian's shirt.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Tell me about the playpipe again...
text: She pulls the shirt off his shoulder as we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HIGH-RISE - LOBBY - NIGHT
text: Engine 17 walking up to a frazzled security guard in the
dialog: lobby.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Where is it?
speaker_heading: SECURITY GUARD
text: Don't know. There's alarms going off
text: on three different floors.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Wonderful.
text: They climb into the elevator.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH RISE - ELEVATOR - NIGHT
text: It's cramped on the way up with the bulky coats, helmets,
text: hose rolls, and the tangible nervousness that always goes
text: with this kind of fire. The elevator Musak plays 101 Strings
text: version of "Tie A Yellow Ribbon 'Round The Old Oak Tree".
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: How do we know if the floor's going
dialog: to be on fire?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: If the doors open and it's hot, don't
dialog: get out.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - HOSE BED
text: Brian pulls off Jennifer's stockings. As she kicks it away...
scene_heading: INT. HIGH-RISE - UPPER FLOOR - NIGHT
text: The elevator stops. DING. The door opens. No howling blaze,
dialog: not even any noise, but enough hanging smoke that you can't
dialog: see your hand in front of your face.
text: They fan out gingerly onto the floor, looking for the fire.
text: Hide and seek in a white fog bank. Everybody stops and
text: listens. Slowly, carefully, they feel their way through the
dialog: haze.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: It's here.
text: On cue something snakes past behind the walls, whispers and
text: whines and shivers up and over them and then is silent.
text: Grindle attaches a hoseline to the building standpipe.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: These high-rise gigs give me the
dialog: creeps.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Let's wait for a back-up, Stephen.
dialog: We're early on this one, it hasn't
dialog: even broke out yet. We're one short
text: as it is with Brian gone.
text: But Stephen's on the hunt now. Obsessed.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Want to learn something?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Yes sir!
text: Stephen and Tim take the lead, their axes gripped like
text: shotguns. Grindle backs them up with a charged hoseline.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Adcox, go with Pengelly and check
text: the other side.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: It isn't safe, man. Don't go splittin'
dialog: us up. Not with this one.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- What the hell's the matter with
dialog: you? You always check the other side.
dialog: I haven't got time for bullshit right
dialog: now, okay? We got a job here.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Let me take the lead, Stephen...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Goddamn it Adcox! Just do your fucking
dialog: job!
text: Adcox folds. With a stricken look on his face he takes his
text: crew down the other way. Stephen and Tim slowly feel their
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: CRACK
text: Everybody SPINS around in terror. Nothing. Something inhuman
text: giggles down ahead of them. Stephen smiles.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (like a mantra)
dialog: Oh, you're so very sly, but so am
dialog: I...
dialog: (to Tim)
dialog: ...Listen to it... you can tell when
dialog: a wall cracks which way it's gonna
dialog: jump... you can hear the doors breathe
dialog: if they're hot...
text: Tim looks confused. He doesn't get it.
text: They come to a side door. Stephen runs his hand down the
text: jam, feels for heat. Then he steps back, takes a deep breath,
text: and CRASHES the door down with one AXE BLOW. Quiet inside.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - HOSE BED - NIGHT
text: Brian and Jennifer are into the rhythm now, breathing deeply.
text: On the wall above them are framed photos of dead firemen.
dialog: Watching.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH-RISE - SECOND DOORWAY - NIGHT
text: Stephen concentrates on the sound of the fire above him, --
text: then abruptly turns and CRASHES down another door.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - ALARM KLAXON GOES OFF - NIGHT
text: Brian and Jennifer lie in a tight embrace, enjoying the
text: moment, the lull, as suddenly the lights SNAP ON and an alarm
text: klaxon BELLOWS. Firemen are coming down the pole now.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: What's going on?
text: They frantically climb into their clothes. The firemen haven't
text: noticed them as they climb aboard. They've STARTED THE ENGINE.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: What are they doing?
scene_heading: EXT. ARSON HQ - STREETS - NIGHT
text: And before either of them realizes it, they're suddenly
text: pulling out into the street and WAILING off down the block.
text: The wind's wild in their hair, the siren deafening, the
text: flashing red lights blinding staccato, And Jennifer loves
text: it. She kisses Brian fiercely, he lets out a war whoop lost
text: in the blast of air, and together they hold each other as
text: the night screams past and...
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT
text: Engine 17 pulls up into the parking lot of the high-rise
text: fire. Firemen leap out of the cab and rush around behind to
text: pull off lengths of hose from the bed. As the folds curl
text: away the fireman is stunned to see a woman's stocking come
text: out with it.
text: With equal shock he looks up and watches as a disheveled and
text: grinning Brian and Jennifer climb calmly down out of the
dialog: bed.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Excuse us.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH-RISE - TIM'S DOOR - NIGHT
text: Stephen and Tim creep along the hall.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to Tim)
dialog: Lotta smoke, but it isn't rolling...
dialog: that means it's hiding... staying
dialog: sleepy... one of these doors...
dialog: Tim's come to one.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Easy... no hurry... you're not going
dialog: anywhere...
text: Stephen BANGS down another door. Sticks his head in to check.
text: A little woodpecker toy dips up and down in a glass of water.
text: Tim readies his axe before his door, gathers his courage as
text: Stephen comes out of the room he was checking. Sees Tim
text: lifting his axe.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Did you check the door for heat,
dialog: Tim?
text: Tim doesn't hear. The axe is already up.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Tim?
text: Tim's committed now, coming hard at the door. And Stephen
text: sees it for just an instant -- Small tendrils of smoke edging
text: lazily around the door -- then being sucked back in.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Tim!
text: He rushes for Tim as Tim's axe SMACKS the door and a whine
text: behind it builds and roars and howls and Tim's all follow-
text: through now, hitting the door with his shoulder as
text: The door EXPLODES OUTWARD, HURLING TIM against the opposite
text: wall and for an instant he's okay but he freezes in terror
text: as A SHRIEKING TONGUE OF FLAME SHOOTS OUT THE DOORWAY and
text: Grindle shouts in horror and opens his hose line as the flames
text: wrap Tim like a jealous lover as Adcox hears it and screams,
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Oh God! Oh God no!
text: And Tim's screaming now too, because his helmet, his mask,
text: his face, it's all melting and Grindle dives suicidally at
text: the monster, BLASTING it with his hose as Stephen ignores
text: the flames and puts his arms around Tim as Grindle DOUSES
text: them both, killing the flames.
text: The monster rolls wounded back into the room, into the air
text: shafts as Tim whimpers incoherently, sliding down the wall
dialog: as Stephen tries to help but oh God you can't tell what's
text: face and what's mask and helmet anymore.
text: Grindle looks back where the fire came from. There's a corpse
text: in there, burned and lying between two doors.
text: Adcox rushes to Tim's side sobbing and it's the end, the end
dialog: of the goddamn world...
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT
text: Brian and Jennifer are having the time of their lives, when
text: suddenly a group of firemen pass by rushing someone on a
text: stretcher to an ambulance and Brian sees -- sweet Jesus --
text: it's Tim. Jennifer turns away in horror. They load Tim into
text: the van as Adcox and Grindle jump in to ride along. To hold
text: his hand.
text: Stephen watches the ambulance disappear out into the street.
text: Frustration and fury tear at him as he takes off his coat
text: and slams it to the ground. He kicks it, kicks it till his
text: strength's gone. He turns, his wounded eyes finding Brian.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT
text: Rimgale walks down the smokey corridor. The charred civilian
text: is there, sitting in the short stretch of hall between two
text: blown doors. Through the haze Rimgale sees Stephen crouched
text: in the interior room, picking at the debris. Lost in himself.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hey, Stevie.
text: Stephen stands and looks around the room, seemingly unaware
text: of Rimgale. He walks wordlessly straight out past him, his
text: eyes streaming with tears.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT
text: Brian shoulders his way through the emergency room. He passes
text: a small alcove full of vending machines. Adcox is there,
text: sipping a paper cup, leaning against the machine in deep
dialog: anguish.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Is he...
speaker_heading: AXE
text: He's alive.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ICU - NIGHT
text: Further down the hall is ICU. Grindle and Santos are there,
text: sitting outside the room, raw and weary. Grindle nods to
text: Brian. Everyone's still stained and smudged from the fire.
dialog: Everyone but Brian.
text: Brian looks through a door window into the room. There,
text: surrounded by doctors and physicians, lies Tim. He's been
text: cut out of his uniform. Gauze bandages everywhere. As a pair
text: of forceps peel some away Brian glimpses what used to be a
text: face, now only reds and browns and leaky whites. He turns
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Do they think he'll pull through?
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: They're not saying.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I should have been there.
speaker_heading: NIGHTENGALE
dialog: None of us should have been there,
dialog: Brian.
text: Voices rise down the hall. Turn to shouts. It's Adcox and
text: Stephen, tearing heartbreakingly into one another. Brian
text: can't make out the words but it's ugly, emotional. Abruptly
text: it ends and Stephen emerges from the alcove, walking toward
dialog: them upset.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You had to do it, didn't you?
dialog: Stephen's got other things on his mind.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: ...Not now, Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Had to take on another fire bare-
dialog: handed, huh? Had to be fucking myth
text: man in there instead of looking out
dialog: for your probie. Is that what
dialog: happened? Is it, Stephen?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I had that fire. He didn't listen!
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: He didn't listen? He was a fucking
dialog: candidate! He was your responsibility.
dialog: He shouldn't have been there in the
dialog: first place, Stephen.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You burned him.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Fuck you.
text: Brian grabs his arm.
text: Stephen SNAPS and roughly PUSHES Brian, knocking him against
text: the wall. Brian comes off it in a flash and is all over
text: Stephen. They go down and it's all thrashing and shouting
text: now. A horrible, endless draw. Grindle and Santos are in it,
text: pulling them apart, holding them up against opposite walls.
text: Both brothers glare at one another, tears filling their eyes.
text: Brian shakes Grindle off and walks away.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - BRIAN'S DESK - MORNING
text: Brian sits staring blankly. A newspaper drops in front of
text: him. FIRE DEPT. SAYS IT'S MURDER. Rimgale stands above him.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Goes on about how the break was made
dialog: through the discovery of "chemical
dialog: traces" and a "behavioral link". Oh,
dialog: and Swayzak's quoted saying the chief
text: investigator is closing in on the
dialog: torch and expects an arrest "any
dialog: time".
text: Brian's eyes wince closed.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Get your stuff and get out.
scene_heading: INT. JENNIFER'S OFFICE - DAY
text: She's pouring some coffee as Brian bursts in.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Brian. What's wrong?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You told Swayzak about our arson
dialog: lead. It's all over the fucking news.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I didn't know it was a secret. There
dialog: aren't supposed to be secrets between
dialog: the city and its investigators --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- Bullshit! You knew what I told
dialog: you wasn't ready for the papers --
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Will you please keep your voice down,
dialog: there's people --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- You could have scared the son of
dialog: a bitch off. We may never bust him
dialog: now. All for a couple's political
dialog: points.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I was doing my job.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (grabs her arm)
dialog: Yeah? And just how much of all this
dialog: has been "doing your job"?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (shakes it off)
dialog: Let me ask you something, do you
dialog: really think Marty had you assigned
dialog: to arson because of your firefighting
dialog: skills? Who the hell are you kidding?
dialog: I was there, remember? I saw you and
dialog: your brother --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Leave Stephen out of this --
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Oh yeah, he's the real fireman.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Who are you? Just another probie
dialog: working for Swayzak --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- I work for the city.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: You knew what we were asking you to
dialog: do. Don't suddenly pull out a
dialog: conscience now. The fit isn't right.
text: Swayzak appears in the doorway. He looks haggard, as if he
text: hasn't slept. There's something haunted in his eyes.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Mr. McCaffrey... Keeping busy?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah. In fact, I just dropped off a
dialog: letter to the Times explaining how
dialog: yesterday's arson announcement was a
dialog: fabrication by your office. They
dialog: loved it. And you know what? You
dialog: were right, my family background in
dialog: firefighting gave it weight.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Oh Brian...
text: Brian shoulders his way past Swayzak and walks out.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL - TIM'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: Brian walks up to Tim's room. Stephen's sitting there, ragged
text: looking. Inside the young probie lies wrapped in tubes and
text: gauze and years of wasted promise. An EKG beeps, a respirator
text: hisses, and Brian gulps down something heavy in his throat.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: He's gonna live. Maybe not much else,
dialog: but he's gonna live...
text: Stephen walks away.
scene_heading: EXT. ARSON HQ - MORNING
text: As Rimgale gets out of his car a limousine pulls up. Swayzak
text: opens the rear door from inside.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Inspector.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Alderman.
scene_heading: INT. SWAYZAK SEDAN - DAY
text: Cruising through traffic. Swayzak is disheveled, unshaven,
text: fidgety. A man who hasn't slept and had a few drinks before
text: the one he's pouring now. He offers one to Rimgale.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I usually have breakfast first.
text: Swayzak apparently doesn't.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: When are you going to catch the prick
dialog: that's doing this, Don?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: "Don?"
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Don't you have any leads at all?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: No Marty, I don't.
text: For the first time, Rimgale sees real fear on Swayzak's face.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: We still haven't found a connection
dialog: between the victims.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Jesus, open your eyes! Seagrave,
dialog: Cosgrove, and now Holcomb -- fried
dialog: in a goddamn high-rise!
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Holcomb? I didn't know the name of
dialog: that victim had even been released
dialog: yet.
text: The sedan stops back at arson HQ. They'd gone around the
dialog: block.
scene_heading: EXT. ARSON HQ - SWAYZAK SEDAN - DAY
text: Rimgale opens the door, climbs out, lingers.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Is there a connection between them,
dialog: Alderman?
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Just catch the son of a bitch.
text: The door shuts and Swayzak roars away.
scene_heading: INT. ARSON HQ - BACK OFFICES - DAY
text: Rimgale walks back into his offices. He's surprised to see
text: Brian there working at his desk.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: What the hell are you doing here?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I'm finished with Swayzak. I'll do
dialog: whatever you want me to do. I just
dialog: want to help catch the guy that burned
dialog: Tim. You gotta give me another shot.
text: Rimgale stares at Brian, appraises him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HIGH-RISE
text: A CLOSE UP of Rimgale POPPING the molding around the door
text: frame of Holcomb's burned office. Underneath can be seen
text: traces of the same white residue from the other fires.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I thought 'ol Marty was acting a
dialog: little strange... And he's right.
text: Rimgale rubs the white powder between his fingers.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Backdraft?
text: Rimgale stands at the spot in the short hall where the body
text: lied between two doors.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
text: The backdraft was set somewhere in
dialog: there. It fried Holcomb when he opened
text: the inner door. But the outer door
dialog: held... and waited for Tim...
text: Brian steps into the inner office.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: So find me the fire.
text: Brian begins searching, probing. He finally stands. Defeated.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: You're thinking too much of the
text: building and not enough of the ghost.
text: Brian's eyes don't understand. From Rimgale's coat comes a
text: plastic flask. He pours out of it a liquid onto the floor
text: and lights a match.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: In a word, Brian, what is this job
dialog: all about?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Fire.
text: Rimgale drops the match.
text: WUMP. A small flame explodes to life.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: It's a living thing, Brian. It
dialog: breathes, it eats, and it hates.
text: The fire's climbing a wall, chewing a corner.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: The only way to beat it is to think
dialog: like it. To know that this flame
dialog: will spread this way across the floor
dialog: not because of the physics of
dialog: flammable liquids or heat convection,
dialog: but because it wants to.
text: FWUMP. It darts west. Licks the ceiling. The fire purrs and
text: hisses. Stretches luxuriously and attacks savagely.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Some guys on this job, fire owns
dialog: them. It makes them fight on its
dialog: level. But the only way to truly
dialog: kill it is to love it a little, just
dialog: like Ronald.
text: Brian stares at the flame. A goblin reaching out for him... --
text: Woosh! Rimgale hits it with a fire extinguisher. In an instant
text: the goblin is gone, the genie in the bottle.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: What the hell are you guys doin'?
text: A young woman's entered.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: We're the fire department, lady.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Well color me stupid, I always thought
text: the fire dept. put out fires.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (to woman)
dialog: You work here?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Till yesterday. What do you think
dialog: the odds are that a non-refundable
dialog: ticket to Paris survived this?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Somewhere between zero and no way.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Shit. What a mess.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: You seem real broken up about Mr.
dialog: Holcomb.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Jeff Holcomb? The Darth Vader of tax
dialog: accountants? He was a sleezeball.
text: Hopefully a sleezeball that carried
dialog: some insurance.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Go talk to the building owner.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: He was the building owner.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Our book lists the owner as Dekom
dialog: Trust.
text: She looks at him like he's the dumbest human she's met all
dialog: week.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Don't investigators come in adult
dialog: size?
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - OUTSIDE STEPHEN'S OFFICE - DAY
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - STEPHEN'S STATION OFFICE - DAY
text: Stephen's lying sprawled on his bunk, his hands pressed over
text: his eyes. There's a voice outside the door.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Stevie? Rimgale's here to see you.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'm busy.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: He just wants to --
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- I'm busy goddamn it, okay?
text: A beat, then Rimgale himself enters.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: What, they don't knock on your planet?
text: Rimgale takes in Stephen's room, the half empty bourbon
text: bottle. Without a word, Rimgale walks over and pours it out.
text: He sits down beside Stephen.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I still haven't gotten your fire
text: report, Stevie. On Tim.
text: A wave of pain rolls through Stephen.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'm working on it.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I deal with this stuff every day.
dialog: But a fireman... you never get used
dialog: to it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What happened up there? He was a
dialog: candidate. Did he pay attention? Was
dialog: he listening?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: ...He wasn't listening to the right
dialog: thing...
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: What do you listen to, Stephen?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You don't know... nobody knows...
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I might.
text: Stephen's eyes meet Rimgale's and hold.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: It knows us. This one knows us.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I need that report, Lt.
text: Stephen takes Rimgale's notebook out of his lap, rips out a
text: page, and writes angrily in huge block letters.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Tim-went-to-the-fire-and-now-he-
dialog: doesn't-have-a-face.
text: Stephen throws the sheet at Rimgale, stands, and walks out.
scene_heading: INT. HALL OF RECORDS
text: An Escher drawing of a place, endlessly vast racks spun around
text: an open central core. High up, lost among its rows, Brian is
text: going through rack after rack of dog-eared record books as
text: Rimgale enters down below.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (trying to hold it
dialog: together in his mind)
dialog: Hey boss, Dekom Trust is owned by
dialog: Pan Illinois... which is majority
text: controlled by Lakeside Dynamics...
dialog: which is a division of Windy City
dialog: Ventures... who's partners are...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Alan Seagrave, Donald Cosgrove, and
dialog: Jeffrey Holcomb.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Son of a bitch. They knew each other.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HALL OF RECORDS
text: More books. Files. Acres of paper.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: So Seagrave and Holcomb were
dialog: accountants...
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: And Cosgrove. Coppers figured he
dialog: laundered money for the mob before
dialog: getting into real estate. They weren't
dialog: very high on Seagrave, either.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Nice bunch of guys.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Who all ended up wearing candles for
dialog: faces...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Swayzak's up to his ass in this
text: somehow. Guy can barely hold a drink
text: in his hand, he's so scared.
text: A beat, then he looks directly at Brian.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: We need to get a look at his files.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP RESTAURANT - NIGHT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKESHORE - DUSK
text: With glowing skyscrapers leaping up in the background, it's
text: an unexpectedly quiet, serene place along the lake. Jennifer
text: sits alone at a bench, watching an ancient fisherman look
text: for dinner, as Brian walks up.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: We still talking?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Look, I'm sorry about the other day --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Swayzak knows something about the
dialog: guys that were murdered. I want to
dialog: know why he keeps that hidden.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I don't know anything about it.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You could check. It'd be in his files.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Do you know what you're asking me to
dialog: do?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Y'know, four years ago I was working
dialog: in a bakery. Two years ago I was
dialog: bringing Marty coffee and he didn't
dialog: even know my name. I run that office
dialog: now. Marty believed in me and I
dialog: believe in him. You want me to just
dialog: throw that away?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Your boss is lying, Jennifer.
text: And it hangs between them, two people lonely on the edge of
dialog: the lake.
scene_heading: INT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. HELEN'S GARAGE - NIGHT
text: At a workbench, under a single lamp, Stephen stands amongst
text: a confusion of tools, wire, And a wall socket.
text: With a pair of pliers, he tugs at something within the socket,
text: puts the face-plate back on and screws it down. He stares at
text: it, and we feel the sudden wave of hopelessness cascading
dialog: through him.
text: He sets the socket back down -- and SCATTERS everything aside
text: in a single, furious move.
scene_heading: INT. HELEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. HELEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Stephen's sits quietly against Helen's back door, lost in
text: himself. A light comes on. Helen opens the back door.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Stephen?
text: She sits down beside him.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'm sorry... I... couldn't sleep...
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: It used to be, when I was a kid,
dialog: what meant most to me about this job
dialog: was there were no ifs. Life and death,
dialog: right and wrong. When someone called
dialog: the fire department, we came... Those
dialog: guys don't know how much I love
dialog: them... You don't leave people
dialog: hanging... cause that's what it's
dialog: all about. It's loyalty. It's 'till
dialog: death do us part. Isn't that what
dialog: you heard?... It's you go, we go...
dialog: Cause without that, it's the end of
dialog: families, it's the end of the fire
dialog: department... and when the fire
dialog: department stops coming... that's
dialog: the end of the fucking world...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'm sorry I came, Helen, it's just...
dialog: it's just there's nobody I can talk
dialog: to...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I miss you.
text: The moment lingers, grows heavy and grey.
scene_heading: INT. HELEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Stephen and Helen in bed, holding each other...
scene_heading: INT. HELEN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Morning, and Stephen dressed, making eggs for three. Sean's
text: there, lending a hand, beaming as Stephen tries to show him
text: how to flip an egg. Helen enters in her robe. He kisses her.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Cook and I are almost finished here.
dialog: Have a seat.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Stephen... I... can I talk to you a
dialog: second...
text: Stephen musses his son's hair and follows her out into the
dialog: hall.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Look, I'm sorry I --
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: -- No, that's okay. It's just Sean...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- He's gettin' good on those eggs.
dialog: And y'know, he told me he actually
dialog: likes the piano.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: I don't want to confuse him, Stephen.
text: The blow's so long and hard and deep you don't even see it.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: It's... It's just things have
dialog: changed... you're the same, Stephen,
dialog: but things are different now... you've
dialog: got a son... you're the best at what
dialog: you do Stephen, you always were, but
dialog: you scare me now...
text: Just then, Sean sticks his head into it.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to Sean)
dialog: Hey... Sean-man, your dad blew it. I
dialog: forgot I had to work this morning...
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Aw dad, c'mon...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Next time, huh? We'll do it up big.
dialog: Promise.
text: Helen's turned away.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Okay.
dialog: (then sotto)
dialog: Mom's crying, dad.
scene_heading: INT. SWAYZAK'S OFFICE - CITY HALL - MORNING
text: Jennifer enters Swayzak's inner office. His chair's turned
text: away toward the window.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (holding print-out)
dialog: Latest polls came in, Marty.
dialog: (he doesn't answer)
dialog: Marty?
text: Finally the chair turns, revealing a haunted man. Polls are
text: far from his mind.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Jesus Christ, Marty, what's going
dialog: on?
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: Leave me alone.
text: She sees a fire department file on the murders open on his
dialog: desk.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: We've come a long way together, Marty.
dialog: I've staked my whole career on you.
dialog: And now you're sneaking around this
text: office, leaking things to the papers
dialog: behind my back...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Is there something you're not telling
dialog: me about these deaths?
text: Swayzak's eyes are dead metal.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: No.
text: And he turns his chair around again. Jennifer stands there a
text: beat. -- Then turns to the filing cabinets.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
text: Brian drives up and parks. He's half way to the staircase
text: when he sees someone sitting in the dark in a car.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Jennifer?
text: She hands him a manila envelope.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What is --
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Just take it.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: That's a dumb thing to say.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You're right.
text: She starts her car.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Goodbye, Brian.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE DEPARTMENT REPAIR DEPOT
text: A cavernous hall full of dozens of fire trucks loaded on
text: jacks. Rimgale's sedan's there, the repairman shaking his
text: head in amazement at the undercarriage.
speaker_heading: REPAIRMAN
dialog: What the hell do you do with this
dialog: thing?
text: Rimgale's looking through the report Brian's handed him.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
text: This is the copy of Swayzak's manning
dialog: report that was released. Everybody
dialog: on this job knows it's bullshit but
dialog: we could never argue with the numbers.
dialog: They're all airtight.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah? Airtight?
text: He dumps three more reports on Rimgale.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I've got three different drafts of
dialog: the same report -- with different
dialog: numbers that're all over the place.
dialog: Looks like they were just making it
dialog: up as they went along.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Did a little check on the consulting
dialog: firm that wrote the report. They did
dialog: exactly one job -- Swayzak's manpower
dialog: study. It's not even really a company.
dialog: No employees, no directors, just a
text: PO Box.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Then who wrote the report?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: It had to be someone who knows
dialog: numbers. Some kind of fancy
dialog: accountant. But what's the connection?
text: Brian hands him something else. A photograph. Swayzak and
text: the other three, posing on a fishing boat, 1970. Time of
dialog: their lives.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I think it's time Mr. Swayzak and us
dialog: had a little heart to heart talk.
scene_heading: EXT. SWAYZAK'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: The red arson sedan pulls up to wealthy home. Rimgale and
text: Brian walk up and knock on the door -- it creaks open ajar.
text: They push the door open slowly.
scene_heading: INT. SWAYZAK'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: It's dark as they enter.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Hello? Swayzak?
text: Brian and Rimgale split up down different halls. It's the
text: HISS Brian hears first. Then the FLASH of an electrical socket
text: FLARING ice-cold cobalt blue. Suddenly the room's dimensions
text: are there in frantic, strobing shadows. Chairs, a couch --
text: -- And a figure that JUMPS Brian. the light from the burning
text: plug is a fierce strobe as the figure, a confused shadow,
text: crashes Brian to the floor. They STRUGGLE.
text: The figure GRABS Brian's throat. Brian PUSHES him back
text: -- Against the burning wall plug. The figure SHRIEKS in pain,
text: gets his hand on a crowbar and SLAMS Brian -- who crumples,
text: dazed. The figure stands -- just as Rimgale TACKLES him. The
text: figure CRASHES across a gas space heater, SNAPPING the
text: connection off. The figure SLAMS Rimgale HARD with the
text: crowbar, squirms free, and stumbles out the door.
text: Hissss... Rimgale climbs to his feet as fire eats at the
text: wall. A baby backdraft wagging its tail. He goes to a dazed
text: Brian's side, lifting him by his armpits and
scene_heading: EXT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT
text: helping him outside. Hissss... The ruptured space heater
text: pumps gas furiously. Rimgale sees that. He also sees a bedroom
text: door ajar on the far side of the house. And through the door
text: a couch. And on the couch, A body. Hissss...
scene_heading: INT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Rimgale rushes back inside. It's Swayzak, unconscious.
scene_heading: EXT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Rimgale drags him out on the stoop beside Brian just as the
text: gas WHUMPS and the doors and windows EXPLODE in a HOWLING
text: FIREBALL, the shrapnel BLOWING Rimgale off his feet. Brian
text: slowly shakes his head clear. He looks around, tries to orient
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Uh... I sorta got a problem here...
text: Brian climbs up to his feet and walks over to where Rimgale
text: lies at a weird angle, a piece of wrought iron fence punched
text: through his shoulder.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT
text: Rimgale lies in an emergency room bed.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Well Brian, I guess you can say it's
dialog: arson now...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: How ya feeling?
text: Rimgale grunts.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Did you pull me out?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Did I say thanks?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Just wondering.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I hate hospitals. You're so... so
dialog: goddamn useless...
text: Rimgale suddenly kicks the bed frame in anger. He kicks it
text: over and over with frustration till something finally SNAPS
text: off. Brian waits, let's him vent his frustration.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: So what do you want me to do?
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: I've been lying here hours... just
dialog: thinking... We're close...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We're not looking in the right place,
dialog: Brian. This one knows us and we're
dialog: not looking in the right place...
scene_heading: INT. PRISON INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY
text: Brian's sitting alone in a chair. Finally the opposite door
text: opens and in enters Ronald.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Well, Mr. Life magazine. Come all
dialog: this way just to say hi?
text: Brian hands him a stack of murder files.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I'm close... but I can't get who it
dialog: is...
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: So you came to me...
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Well, this is going to be an
dialog: interesting afternoon after all...
text: As Ronald starts to read the files
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. PRISON INTERVIEW ROOM - LATER - DAY
text: Brian still sitting there. Watching Ronald devour the
text: statistics. The photos of charred bodies. Ronald finishes,
text: leans back.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Okay, here's the deal. I'll tell you
dialog: a story, you tell me one. Fair?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Who's doing this?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Your first question should be who
dialog: isn't. It isn't a spark, Brian. Not
dialog: enough damage. And an insurance pro?
dialog: Where's the profit margin?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Then who --
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: -- No no, your turn. Tell me a story.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I don't have a story.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Sure you do.
text: Ronald drops on the table a dog-eared copy of that 1972 LIFE
text: magazine with Brian on the cover.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Famous story even. Straight burn.
text: Just an engine and truck first on
dialog: scene. What did you feel, Brian,
dialog: when you first got there?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: You gotta tell a story too, Brian.
dialog: It's fair. C'mon, don't think too
dialog: hard --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I... I thought it was great. I loved
dialog: it. It was nothing to these guys...
dialog: medium deal.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Right. Light smoke, low roll. Couple'a
text: civilians hollering -- medium deal.
dialog: So young fireman Adcox and Captain
text: McCaffrey, they head up stairs, get
text: out on the fire escape -- McCaffrey
dialog: does the ballsy jump across... what
dialog: were you feeling, Brian?
dialog: (Brian doesn't answer)
dialog: C'mon, you promised. Be honest.
dialog: (Brian just stares)
dialog: Okay... Guard!
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- I wanted to be him. Right then I
dialog: wanted to be him more than anything...
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Very good, Brian. -- About your report
dialog: here. The way to a torch's heart is
dialog: through his tools. That's how you
dialog: know him. It's the way he talks to
dialog: the fire. And to you if you listen.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: The outlets.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: That's a probie answer. You're smarter
dialog: than that, Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Trychticholorate.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Good. -- So our two heroes, Adcox
text: and McCaffrey, they go back inside.
dialog: Only there's another fire in there
dialog: nobody sees. And it took your dad,
dialog: didn't it Brian? Did you see him
dialog: burn?
text: In a flash, Brian suddenly reaches across and grabs Ronald
text: by the collar.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Who the fuck is doing this?
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: After it took your dad... the fire...
dialog: did it look at you Brian? Did it
dialog: talk to you?...
text: And Ronald sees something in Brian's eyes. He smiles.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: You see, our world's aren't so
dialog: different...
dialog: Brian releases Ronald.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: Who's doing this?
text: The arsonist smiles a creepy, horrible grin.
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Think, Brian. Who doesn't love fire,
dialog: but knows it better than anyone else?
dialog: Who's around trychticholorate 24
dialog: hours a day?
text: A cold shock rolls through Brian as he slumps back in his
dialog: chair.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Oh Jesus Christ...
speaker_heading: RONALD
dialog: Not such a far walk after all, is
dialog: it, Brian?
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - MARINA - NIGHT
text: Brian climbs up onto Stephen's boat. Nobody home. He opens
text: the cabin door, goes inside and hits the lights.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - NIGHT
text: There's cereal bowls in the sink, beer bottles on the table,
text: And a stack of fire department supplies in the corner.
text: His whole body aching with reluctance, Brian begins looking
text: through them. Solvents, Armorall, a small specialty can of
text: fire dept. chemicals. There's a label of ingredients on it.
text: Way down at the bottom, Is trychticholorate. Nausea wracks
text: its way through Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Oh goddamn it Stephen...
text: Footsteps. Brian spins around in stone shock as Stephen comes
text: into the cabin.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Hey, what are you doing here?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Just... Just wanted to say hello...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: So hello.
text: Brian backs away from the chemicals.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Well, long as you're here you can
dialog: help clean up a little. I've got a
dialog: guy coming to look at this in a few
dialog: minutes.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You're selling dad's boat?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Yeah, it's just another memory in my
dialog: life right now. And I got way too
dialog: many of them...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I really should get back. There's...
dialog: there's something I'm supposed to
dialog: do.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Yeah? What have you got to do?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Look at you. Look at your face. All
dialog: the things you must be thinking.
dialog: Man, you must really hate my guts.
dialog: Well, you know what? It's okay.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Look, Stephen, maybe we can talk
dialog: about this some other --
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- Okay, so you don't like me. You
dialog: don't like everything I've done.
dialog: What, because I wasn't such a genius
dialog: the way I raised you? Jesus Christ,
dialog: dad was gone, what was I supposed to
dialog: do? You tell me, what the fuck was I
dialog: supposed to do?!
text: He KICKS the bulkhead wall.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: It's okay, Stephen, I --
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- I tried, y'know? Helen's right. I
dialog: don't have all the answers, but
dialog: goddamn it, I've got some.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Look, you're gonna do what you have
dialog: to, and maybe I shouldn't have gotten
dialog: in the way. I'm your brother, not
dialog: your father. Go on. You gotta go
dialog: somewhere? Go...
text: Brian turns to leave. Pauses.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I saw it.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Saw what?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: When dad died, I saw another fire...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Everybody did.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I saw it before it got them. I tried
dialog: to yell, but... He asked me to look
dialog: out for him. And I didn't do it. I
dialog: let him die.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: ...Jesus, you been carrying that
dialog: around for twenty years? For christ's
dialog: sake, you were seven years old! You
dialog: think he could have heard you in
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I hate him so much sometimes, Stephen.
dialog: You don't know how hard it was for
dialog: me to put that uniform on...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Maybe I do.
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: ...What a fuckin' mess, huh?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: People can change Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Sometimes right when you're looking
text: at them.
text: Brian sees the chemicals in the corner again and something
text: freezes up inside. Stephen catches the look and there's
text: horrible silence between them.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Oh God, Stephen, what's going on
dialog: with you?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I don't know, Brian... I don't know...
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - NIGHT
text: Brian stands before the fire station. His brother's and his.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - UPSTAIRS LOCKER ROOM
text: Brian PRIES the lock off Stephen's locker. Starts looking
text: through it. Adcox comes out of the shower with a towel on,
text: starts shaving in a mirror. He doesn't notice Brian. Adcox
text: turns to head for his own locker and the towel slips a little.
dialog: And Brian's universe caves in.
text: An icy claw tears out his stomach. Gulping breaths, he forces
text: himself to look at Adcox's back.
text: On it is a small, rectangular burn. It's fresh and it's the
text: size of a wall socket. At that moment Adcox turns. The two
text: of them stare at one another just a beat, then Adcox walks
text: past him. Just then the alarm bells RING. Brian hesitates a
text: beat, confused, then turns and runs down to
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - APPARATUS FLOOR
text: Where firemen are scurrying around, suiting up. Brian looks
text: frantically for Stephen, sees him out back.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - BACK OF STATION - SUNDOWN
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (breathless)
dialog: -- Stephen, wait a minute. I gotta
dialog: talk to you. It's Adcox, he's --
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- What are you doing here?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I saw Adcox's back! I saw the burn!
dialog: I put it there! Jesus Christ, Stephen,
dialog: he's been killing people!
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: How do you know?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I knew when you came looking for the
dialog: chemicals. Looking for me.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- What were they doing there?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: They were for the fucking boat, Brian.
text: Grindles sticks his head out the back door.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: We gotta roll, Stevie...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'll be there.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: They're waitin' man.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'll be there, goddamn it!
text: Grindle goes back in.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Anything else?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What are we going to do about this?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'll handle it.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: We gotta go to Rimgale, Stephen.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: I'm his Lt. He's my responsibility.
dialog: I'll handle it. Me.
text: Stephen turns and walks toward the station.
text: Brian's eyes go to a window just above it. There, watching
text: him, watching the whole exchange between brothers, is Adcox.
text: Adcox stares at Brian a beat, then finally disappears as
text: Brian hears the cough of diesel engines.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Oh, Christ. Stephen...
text: He starts running for the station.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - NIGHT
text: -- It's too late. Adcox climbs aboard just as the engine
text: company pulls out and whistles down the street.
text: The ladder company is just easing onto the drive. Brian
text: hesitates only an instant, then runs to the equipment racks,
text: PULLS off the hooks his helmet, coat, boots -- and jumps
text: onto the truck as it takes off in pursuit.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. ENGINE COMPANY 17 - NIGHT
text: As it howls down the avenue, Stephen turns around and stares
text: at Adcox sitting behind. The glimmer of an understanding...
scene_heading: INT./EXT. TRUCK COMPANY 46 - NIGHT
text: The laddermen look confused seeing Brian sitting among them.
text: A CAR Suddenly CUTS the truck company off. The driver SLAMS
text: the brakes, PUSHING the truck company into a HORRIBLE SKID.
text: The back fishtails, the wheels JUMP the curb, BASH a mailbox,
text: and then the whole rig ROLLS onto its side and DRAGS to a
dialog: stop.
text: It's tangled confusion in the rear cab. Firemen, unhurt,
text: piled atop one another. Brian slides his way out from under
text: them and looks down the street where plumes of smoke rise
text: six blocks away.
text: He starts running.
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE FIRE - NIGHT
text: Flames and smoke curl from a huge industrial warehouse along
text: the river as Brian, panting, runs up. He searches frantically
text: through the maze of arriving engine companies, looking for
text: number 17. There it is but nobody's home. Brian stops a
text: passing captain.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Where are they? Where's 17?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
text: On the roof.
text: Brian looks up at the smoke and whirling firestorm four
text: stories above him, feels the bile of fear in his throat, the
text: desperation, -- And begins strapping on an air tank.
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
text: Brian, now fully suited up, climbs the endless rungs of an
text: extended aerial ladder.
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE ROOF - NIGHT
text: Tongues of flame ROCKET skyward through ragged holes. Black
text: clouds drift murderously, roofing tars bubble and hiss as
text: the roof itself GROANS like a comatose dinosaur, reminding
dialog: you the whole thing could go any minute -- and you with it.
text: Trudging alone across this alien, spongy surface, Brian looks
text: for his company. It's almost impossible to tell anyone apart,
text: faces hidden behind helmets and masks.
text: Suddenly a cloud of smoke clears and there's two firemen
text: near the edge, "17" on their helmets.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Stephen --
text: The helmets look up. Stephen and Adcox. Facing each other.
text: Adcox cradles an axe.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Brian?
text: Brian starts to move beside Stephen but Adcox turns, tightens
text: his grip on the axe, and now all the cards are on the table.
text: A hissing black cloud drifts through. They're the only three
dialog: people on earth.
text: Adcox's eyes are clouded with tears.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Aw man, Stephen, listen to me...
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- What the fuck were you thinking,
dialog: huh? Burning people? You're a fireman.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: They were killing firemen, man. When
dialog: Sally showed me what was in Swayzak's
dialog: files... They were my friends, I had
dialog: to do it. I had to do it for the
dialog: department.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Did you do it for Tim?
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: (pain, to Stephen)
dialog: That was an accident! Jesus Christ,
dialog: why did you have to go in there so
dialog: fucking early? Why didn't you listen
dialog: to me!
text: Brian and Stephen are backed up against the roof edge --
text: sixty feet up. Far below a fireboat has begun pumping a
text: massive stream at the side of the building.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: You gotta let me finish --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Just come down, John. Just --
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: -- Shut up! Your dad would fucking
dialog: puke if he saw how you've shit on
dialog: his department!
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: -- Knock it off!
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: (to Stephen)
dialog: -- You can't let him turn you against
dialog: your friends, man --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- He killed people --
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: -- You know what Swayzak would do to
dialog: the department if this got out? --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: -- Stephen, this is bullshit --
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: -- What he would do to your dad's
dialog: department? You gotta let me finish
dialog: it --
text: And there's a horrible glimmer of confusion on Stephen's
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You're his Lt., Stephen...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Are you gonna handle it? Are you
dialog: Stephen?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Shut up!
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: ...What do you want me to do, Stephen?
dialog: Talk to me. What am I supposed to
dialog: do?
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: There's a fire. We've got a job here.
dialog: Let's get on with it.
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE - ACROSS THE ROOF - NIGHT
text: The rest of the crews are totally oblivious to what's
text: happening through the smoke on the other side. Grindle and
text: Santos feel the roof go suddenly spongy beneath them.
speaker_heading: GRINDLE
dialog: Shit... It's going! Clear the roof!
dialog: Now!
text: Everybody drops their equipment and runs for the edges as
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE ROOF - BRIAN ET. AL - NIGHT
text: Brian, Stephen and Adcox react as the roof HOWLS and GROANS
text: and huge SPLITS begin racing along it. And then it goes.
text: The center section DROPS, and in rolling waves of SCREECHING
text: steel, the hole spreads outward; DEVOURING.
text: Adcox shoves them aside and runs for his life as the hole
text: races for them, SWALLOWING roof.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Jesus Christ Brian, run! Run goddamn
dialog: it!
text: And Brian balls-out dashes for the edge. Stephen's made one
text: corner, Brian desperately heads for another. At the last
text: instant -- as the HOWLING FLAME BELLOWS UP to his ankles --
text: Brian LEAPS OFF the roof --
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE - FIRE ESCAPE - NIGHT
text: -- And falls half a story before CRASHING onto an exterior
text: fire escape. Flames have cut off the fire escape two floors
text: below, so Brian climbs down as far as possible, crawls onto
text: a ledge, KICKS out a window, steps through,
dialog: And falls.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - ELEVATOR SHAFT - NIGHT
text: Blackness and emptiness, two stories of it, before he CRASHES
text: into a pool of water at the bottom. He's in a freight elevator
text: shaft, thrashing madly, drowning. Great SHEETS of WATER are
text: POURING through an upper doorway and CASCADING down like
dialog: monsoon rain.
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE - FIREBOAT
text: We see it's coming from the fireboat's rushing stream.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - ELEVATOR SHAFT
text: The weight of his equipment is pulling Brian underwater.
text: Struggling against the insane swirls and the sheets of water
text: still POURING DOWN, Brian unhooks his air tank. He leans
text: back, tries to float on the rising column of water. -- His
text: coat catches on something -- YANKS him underwater. He
text: struggles feverishly -- finally tears the coat off.
text: The building GROANS in earnest. Flaming chunks of plaster
text: CRASH down around Brian, forcing him to duck underwater. The
text: place is coming apart.
text: Ten feet above, one of the falling chunks SMACKS a gas main,
text: SPLITTING then IGNITING it. A white-hot JET OF FLAME SHOOTS
text: from one side of the shaft to the other.
text: Brian's floating okay, he's floating right up into the flames.
text: Brian tries to flatten himself out, to keep everything but
text: his nose below water, but he's still moving up -- the heat
text: becoming so intense his face flares and he's ducking under
text: water now, trying to stay alive, trying to decide whether to
dialog: drown or burn --
text: -- When there's a CRASH. And suddenly another door on the
text: shaft is tearing open. There's a glint of an axe. A
dialog: flashlight.
dialog: It's Stephen.
text: Brian has about two seconds left. In that time Stephen sees
text: the shut-off for the gas line mounted on the wall opposite.
text: It's unreachable, a good twelve feet across a horizontal
text: curtain of flame. Before we can even assimilate that,
text: Stephen's already jumped. A crazy leap over the fire. He
text: SMACKS the opposite wall, HITS the shut-off, and FALLS
text: CRASHING into the pool beside Brian.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You crazy son of a bitch, why couldn't
dialog: you stay behind a desk where you
dialog: belong?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: "You never know till the fire stares
dialog: you down if you're gonna be --"
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Oh shut up, huh?
dialog: (grimaces)
dialog: I think I broke my goddamn arm...
text: Brian helps him stay above water. The level continues to
text: rise, bringing them finally even with an open doorway they
text: scramble through.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
text: It leads to a stairwell that's become a RAGING TORRENT of
text: water spilling down it. No way. They push through to the
text: next doorway and out onto
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
text: The place is full of hundreds of chemical drums. The fire
text: has cracked its way into the room as WUMP -- drums begin
text: EXPLODING, SHOOTING UPWARD Roman candle fountains of
text: glittering FLAME. Brian helps Stephen as they snake their
text: way past sweating drums -- pressure valves hissing madly
text: with desperation. They duck low, round a corner,
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - CATWALK - NIGHT
text: -- And walk right into an axe handle that SMACKS Brian's
text: throat KNOCKING him gasping flat on his back. It's Adcox.
text: Stephen JUMPS Adcox and TACKLES him on the edge of a metal
text: platform that extends out from the raised flooring.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You stupid son of a bitch! What the
dialog: fuck are you doing!
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: Stevie... I...
text: Adcox struggles against him, heaving and sobbing.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Let it go! Goddamn it let it go!
text: And Adcox releases the axe.
speaker_heading: AXE
dialog: I'm sorry... I'm so sorry...
text: Brian's on his feet now, coming toward them, when a chemical
text: drum below EXPLODES, the shock wave BUCKLING the platform
text: and DROPPING it several feet before it HOLDS. Brian, cut-
text: off, is HIT with a wall of debris.
text: Adcox and Stephen are FLUNG across the platform and THROUGH
text: the shattered railing. Stephen grabs a piece of broken,
text: dangling strut and hangs on with one hand.
text: In his other hand is Adcox. Hanging below him, his grip
text: loosening.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Stephen!
text: Brian's struggling to get out from under the debris. The
text: railing Stephen's hanging onto is slick, his hand SLIPPING
text: along it. But he won't let go of Adcox. His eyes bore into
text: his best friend's with absolute conviction.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: You go, we go.
text: The towering shots of FLAME from below have begun to IGNITE
text: Adcox's pant leg. He's starting to burn. But Stephen won't
text: let go. Won't let go even as the flames crawl up Adcox's
text: back. And Stephen's hand is slipping and slipping and then
text: it isn't slipping anymore because it's come off.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: NO!
text: Adcox and Stephen FALL. There's a narrow catwalk half-way
text: down. Stephen HITS with a sickening CRUNCH.
text: Adcox falls past it, down into the flames.
text: There's an exposed I-beam running from the ruined platform
text: out over the catwalk. Brian climbs up onto it, balances across
text: over the fire below and jumps down to the catwalk where his
text: brother lies, battered but still alive.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You're gonna be all right, man.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - FLOOR - NIGHT
text: Brian looks down and across the factory floor. There, coming
text: through the doorway, is Pengelly and Nightengale with a
text: hoseline.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey! Over here!
text: They start for him when another drum EXPLODES, FLATTENING
text: them and launching their hoseline into a crazy, thrashing
text: arc. The flame has cut them off from the hose. Stephen sees
dialog: what Brian's thinking.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Wait for another hose team...
text: But Brian's already moving for the catwalk ladder.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Wait for the goddamn hose team!
text: Brian puts his feet on the outside rungs of the ladder and
text: SLIDES down to the factory floor. He's heading for the
text: hoseline when WHAM! -- The fire cuts him off. Not just any
dialog: fire. That same one from so many years ago.
dialog: Don't fuck with me, kid. I'm not in the mood.
text: Nightengale's lost his helmet and it's lying near the flames
text: spinning slowly upside down -- just like his father's. Brian
text: stands there, paralyzed, as the fire laughs at him. Same old
text: little kid with his finger up his ass. Then something
text: different comes into Brian's eyes.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: No... No more.
text: There's a pathetic little wall extinguisher mounted on the
text: pole. Brian lifts it, approaches the fire. You can practically
text: hear the flames laugh at him. Brian suddenly turns and SLAMS
text: the neck of the extinguisher against the pole, BREAKING it
text: off before HEAVING the cannister HISSING into the flames
text: where it EXPLODES -- a cloud of extinguisher powder that
text: STUNS the flames just long enough for Brian to dash through
text: and TACKLE the hose.
text: The fire shakes off the powder, rises up to kill -- Just as
text: Brian spins and HITS it with the STREAM.
text: -- And it's like a howling train wreck as the two grapple
text: with each other -- Pengelly and Nightengale have an opening,
text: and they're dashing for the catwalk ladder up to Stephen
text: because the fire doesn't care -- it only has eyes for Brian
dialog: now --
text: -- And Stephen sees Brian tackle the monster, and his eyes
dialog: fill with tears --
text: -- And the fire's pushing Brian -- pushing him with the fury
text: of a frightened street bully -- but Brian won't give -- and
text: now the fire's back's broken -- it's whimpering, dying.
text: And Pengelly and Nightengale have climbed up to Stephen now,
text: pulling him away.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: That's my brother! That's my brother
dialog: goddamn it!
text: And the fire's just a little gremlin now, sighing sadly as
text: Brian steps up with the hoseline.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Another time, friend.
text: And whoosh, it's gone.
scene_heading: EXT. BURNED BUILDING - NIGHT
text: Brian rushes up as paramedics load his brother into an
dialog: ambulance.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (smiles, weak)
dialog: You are such a pain in the ass...
text: As Brian jumps in with him
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AMBULANCE - NIGHT
text: Paramedics swarm over Stephen as the ambulance screams through
text: the night. Brian's right there, holding his hand.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: Don't tell them about Adcox... Don't
dialog: let 'em...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I'm sorry... I'm sorry I thought...
dialog: I won't.
text: His brother squeezes Brian's hand, his eyes never leaving
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
speaker_heading: (reading EKG)
dialog: Oh shit, give him some lidocaine,
dialog: now. Now.
speaker_heading: STEPHEN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Who's your brother?
text: Stephen's EKG's begun to falter. The other paramedic fires
text: off an injection into his IV.
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
dialog: His pressure's fading -- push some
text: adrenalin.
text: The EKG's become erratic. Stephen's eyes never leave Brian's.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Oh man, don't you die... Don't you
dialog: die...
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC #2
dialog: He's going south... He's gonna box
dialog: damn it...
text: They put an ambo bag over Stephen's face. The eyes never
dialog: leave Brian's.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Goddamn it don't you die now... Not
dialog: now!
text: They're breathing for him now. The EKG begins shrieking.
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
dialog: V-fib!
text: The paramedics begin scrambling to load the defibrillator
text: pads on Stephen's chest. But the fireman's eyes never waver
text: from Brian. They look into his with complete conviction,
dialog: complete acceptance, And then they don't.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
text: Then, FADE UP TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MICHIGAN AVE - DAWN
text: A silent, quiet street absolutely empty of traffic. Then
text: over the crest of Chicago's mightiest thoroughfare, creeps
text: slowly a fire engine. It's emergency lights are on but not
text: the siren. This engine isn't in a hurry today.
text: Behind comes another fire engine. And another. Ten, twenty,
text: all of them creeping slowly along. And behind the engines
text: now walk firemen in their dress blues. Hundreds of them.
text: Walking silently in step behind
speaker_heading: TWO COFFINS
text: Loaded in the rear of Engine 17. Santos drives as Grindle,
text: Brian, and the men of ladder company 46, walk behind. The
text: silent procession passes under extended aerial ladders crossed
text: like dress swords. Average people stop, take their hats off.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE SHORE DRIVE - THE SILENT PROCESSION
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY - DAY
text: Two coffins, lying side by side, draped in the blue and white
text: of the Chicago flag. A single fire helmet rests atop each
text: casket.
text: Brian stands at attention beside Helen. He holds the hand of
text: Stephen's son Sean, his eyes clouded with tears as a fire
text: dept. honor guard plays Taps. Jennifer's there, too far away
dialog: to touch.
text: Rimgale, still wearing a head bandage, stands stiffly beside
text: a brass bell and speaks with a voice raw and weary.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: In the Chicago Fire Department the
dialog: alarm code 3-3-5 signifies that the
text: company has returned home to quarters.
dialog: We will now ring out that code to
dialog: welcome home John Adcox and Stephen
dialog: McCaffrey...
text: With a small hammer Rimgale rings out 3-3-5 on the bell.
text: The honor guard folds the flag covering Stephen's casket and
text: hands it to Helen, who holds it to her breast as we
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY - DAY
text: A sea of blue uniforms drifting across green as the funeral
text: breaks up. Brian hugs Helen and Sean. Lets them go.
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY EDGE - DAY
text: Rimgale's there, resting against his dept. sedan as Brian
text: walks by, pauses, and leans on it beside him. A beat.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Your brother was a good man.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Another couple of good men get burned
dialog: up for their city? Is that how it's
dialog: going to read?
dialog: (Brian doesn't answer)
dialog: You're the only one that knows.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Like it never happened...
text: Rimgale turns to walk back to his sedan. He pauses. Looks
text: back to Brian.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Want to help me with something?
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - DAY
text: An elevator opens as Brian and Rimgale walk quickly out,
text: down a hall, and BURST into Swayzak's office.
scene_heading: INT. SWAYZAK'S OFFICE - DAY
text: The Alderman's there, giving a press conference from his
dialog: desk.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Mr. Swayzak! How ya doin'?
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Investigator...
text: Rimgale sits on Swayzak's desk.
speaker_heading: SWAYZAK
dialog: I'm a little busy right now --
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: This'll only take a minute. There's
text: two cops outside that want to ask
dialog: you about this --
text: Rimgale drops the manning report on Swayzak's desk.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: This is just a guess of course, but
dialog: I think they're gonna want to know
dialog: why you secretly paid Donald Cosgrove,
dialog: Jeffrey Holcomb and Alan Seagrave to
text: create a phony manpower study.
dialog: (to cameras)
dialog: You guys'll wait, right?
text: The room explodes with questions. Through the din Brian leans
text: over the desk very close to Swayzak.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
text: See that glow flashing in the corner
dialog: of your eye? That's your career
dialog: dissipation light. And it just went
text: into high gear.
text: Brian turns and pushes his way out. At the door he pauses
text: and looks back at Rimgale. The investigator nods and smiles
dialog: just a little...
scene_heading: INT. SWAYZAK'S OFFICE CORRIDOR
text: As Brian walks down it, Rimgale appears and calls to him.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: -- Brian.
text: Brian hesitates.
speaker_heading: SHADOW
dialog: Don't keep looking over your shoulder
text: for the ghost. It's gone now.
text: And there's just a beat between the investigator and his
text: probie before Brian nods and walks away.
scene_heading: EXT. SWAYZAK OFFICE CORRIDOR
text: Brian walks down the hall. He passes Jennifer's small office.
text: She's in there, surrounded by packing boxes.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I think your boss is going to need
dialog: some spin control.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I quit two days ago, Brian.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What'll you do?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I don't have the slightest idea...
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: I'll see ya around, huh?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: It's a small town.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - CITY
text: And morning breaking across the avenues and up against the
text: tired brick of firehouse 17.
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - LOCKER ROOM
text: Brian sits staring into his locker, lost in thought, his
text: equipment stacked up on the bench beside him. THE ALARM KLAXON
speaker_heading: SOUNDS
scene_heading: INT. FIRE STATION 17 - APPARATUS FLOOR
text: And firemen scurrying to their equipment on the apparatus
text: floor. They're climbing aboard their rigs now and the pumper's
text: diesel is coughing to life.
text: At the last moment, as it begins to pull out, Brian comes
text: sliding down the pole in his turn-out gear, bounces off the
text: floor, and climbs aboard as the engine WHISTLES away.
scene_heading: INT. ENGINE 17 - CAB
text: There's a new fireman beside him on the bench. He can't get
text: his coat buckled right. Brian leans over does it for him.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You're doing it wrong.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE ENGINE 17 - STREET - DAY
text: And the fire engine slips away from us, down the avenue,
dialog: into the city as we
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
