text: The "Fake" Back to the Future Script.
text: Based upon a Novelization of the Original first draft script.
scene_heading: The Real Original can be read here: http://www.scifiscripts.com/scripts/back_to_the_future_original_draft.html
text: BACK TO THE FUTURE
dialog: Screenplay by Robert Zemeckis & Bob Gale
dialog: Mach 11, 1980
scene_heading: INT. ORPHEUM THEATER - LABORATORY OF PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: The credits began to roll across the TV screen for the movie Close
text: Encounters as the 3/4-inch cassette finished copying over to Beta and
text: VHS. Seventeen-year-old Marty McFly looks up from his issue of Rolling
text: Stone, where he was checking out an ad for a guitar amp. Maybe after a
dialog: few more pirated tapes he would have enough money to buy it.
text: Marty sets the magazine down and stops the tapes, rewinds them, then
text: takes a pen and carefully writes, Close Encounters, Original Edition on
text: the labels. He places the master tape in a drawer. Other titles of
text: bootlegged videotapes jump out at him as he does so: The Empire Strikes
dialog: Back, Stir Crazy, and Superman II.
text: Marty turns off the video equipment and picks up his schoolbooks, along
text: with the other two videocassettes. He walks into another room connected
text: to the video lab. This one is much larger, filled with workbenches
text: covered with electronics, chemical equipment, and dust.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor Brown! It's almost eight thirty -- I'm outta here!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Shhhhhhhh!
text: Professor Emmett Brown hissed, his white head bent over what looked to
text: Marty like a solar cell. At 65, he was considered the town eccentric,
dialog: an inventor who's inventions didn't always work the way they were
text: supposed to. Professor Brown was tall -- though his posture had grown
text: more hunched with age -- and had a mane of shaggy white hair that was
text: almost always unruly and uncombed. At the moment, the Professor tries
dialog: to get the cell positioned under the skylight in a certain way, maybe
text: to catch the sunlight. Marty stepped closer to him, curious on what the
dialog: project was.
text: Whatever he was working on it looked old, maybe 30 years. The Professor
text: pours some kind of chemical solution into a compartment in the cell and
text: plugs a patch cord from it into a Voltmeter. A light bulb on the panel
text: glows dimly and the meter needles moves slightly.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Blast it! Twenty four measly volts!
text: Professor Brown throws a flask across the room in his frustration,
text: shattering it against the wall. Marty jumps back, startled.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: The power of a million hydrogen bombs!
text: (pointing to the sun that shone down though the skylight, then to his
dialog: experiment)
dialog: ...and we get twenty four measly volts. It's not fair! I've been
dialog: working on this power converter since 1949, and you'd think in all that
dialog: time, I could find the right chemicals that would efficiently convert
dialog: radiation into electric energy! But no! Thirty three years of
dialog: dedication and research, and all I've got to show for it is a bootleg
dialog: video operation!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That reminds me, if we could scrape up enough for a 35 film chain, I've
dialog: got a connection with a projectionist in a first run house -- we could
dialog: be sellin' new movies on the street before they're even in the theater.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: A 35mm film chain... I'll see what I can do....
text: He turns his attention back to his power converter. Marty crosses the
text: room, heading for the front door. He pauses at the door next to it, the
text: one with five locks on it, and tried the knob. It was still locked. Big
dialog: surprise, he thought with some disappointment.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Won't give up, will you, Marty?
text: Professor Brown asks without turning around. Marty grins.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: One of these days you're gonna leave this door open and I'll find out
dialog: what's in there.
text: Professor Brown glances at him.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Did you ever consider that some doors are locked for a reason?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Nope. The way I figure it, doors are made to be opened. See you after
dialog: school.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Oh -- Marty -- what time did you say it was?
text: Marty stopped in his tracks, a few steps away from the stairs.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Eight thirty.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: AM or PM?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (rolls his eyes) Pro, the sun's out!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Oh, right, right... (glancing up at the skylights)
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jeez, for a guy with a ton of clocks, you sure don't pay much attention
dialog: to time.
text: Professor Brown looks quickly at all the synchronized clocks around the
dialog: room.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: On the contrary, (standing up and walking toward Marty) I may not pay
dialog: much attention to the measurement of time, but I'm very aware of Time
dialog: itself. I believe time to be its own dimension... to be controlled...
dialog: to be contained....
text: Marty runs down the stairs, having had enough of the Professor's weird
text: ramblings.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Catch you later! (he called over his shoulder)
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: (continues speaking to the empty room) ...To be traveled through
text: He reached into his lab coat pocket and pulled out some keys. One-by-
text: one, the Professor unlocks the locks on the door. Finally, he opens it
dialog: and walked inside.
scene_heading: INT. LABORATORY OF PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN - LOCKED ROOM
text: A tangle of equipment was in the center of the room with a number of
text: lenses at the end of the maze. It resembled nothing so much as a large
dialog: ray gun or laser. Professor Brown stood back and admired it. If only I
dialog: could harness enough power! he said wistfully.
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHEUM THEATRE - MORNING
text: Marty opened the door at the end of the stairs and stepped out on the
text: street before the Orpheum Theater. The place had been abandon years
text: before, it's windows boarded over. The marquee still spelled out the
dialog: last movie that had played there, Assembly of Christ. Professor Brown
text: resided on the third floor of the structure, the only person who used
dialog: the premises now.
text: Marty walked down the street, headed for Wilson's Cafe. Parked a
text: hundred feet down the street was a black van. The sign on it read
text: N.R.C. and two men were carefully putting samples of water from a
text: gutter into little test tubes. Marty glanced at them for a moment,
text: somewhat curious. They ignored him. He reached the cafe and went
dialog: inside.
scene_heading: INT. WILSON'S CAFE
text: The owner, Dick Wilson, was sitting behind the counter. Only thirty-
text: five, he already had lost more hair than remained on his head. Even
text: though he was a good hundred pounds overweight, he was eating a Babe
text: Ruth candy bar while reading a newspaper.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Morning Dick.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (setting the candy bar down) Marty. What's for breakfast?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Gimme some chili, fries, and a Tab.
text: Marty glanced down at the newspaper lying on the counter.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: Hot tip, (bringing Marty his drink) Rubber Biscuit in the third race at
dialog: Arlington.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (nods) Dick, what's with those guys out there in the gutter? (tilting
text: his head towards the window)
speaker_heading: DICK
text: (squints out the window and shrugs) Third time they've been out there
dialog: this week.
text: Marty watches them for a moment, loading up the water samples in the
dialog: van.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What's N.R.C.?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (shrugs again) I don't know. National Cash Register?
scene_heading: INT. HIGH SCHOOL
text: Later that afternoon, Marty stared at the textbook page in his hand. It
text: showed a photo of a mushroom cloud with the words, Last above ground
text: atomic test, March 18, 1952, Atkins, Nevada. He took his pen and wrote
text: the letters M.M + S.P. on the cloud and drew and arrow through it, like
dialog: a valentine. He added at the bottom, How about the dance Saturday?
dialog: We'll have a BLAST!
text: In the background his science teacher, Mr. Arky, droned on with the
dialog: day's lecture.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: There were only three above ground Atomic Tests in the United States,
dialog: so the government took every opportunity to study the effects of
dialog: radiation. Actual single family tract homes were constructed on the
text: test site, totally furnished with refrigerators, TV's, furniture....
dialog: What a waste of perfectly good stuff, Marty thought.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: ...Anything you could find in a typical home, just so scientists could
dialog: learn what kind of damage an atomic bomb would do to a typical town.
text: They even put mannequins in the houses, just like in auto crash tests.
text: Marty tore the page with the picture and note out of his book. He
text: turned to look at Suzy Parker, the pretty alburn-haired girl across the
text: aisle and a seat behind him. He quickly folded the page and winked at
text: her before tossing it deftly on her desk. The teacher didn't notice.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: But the fact remains that today, thirty years after those early nuclear
text: tests, the threat of nuclear annihilation is as great as it ever was.
dialog: Certainly, nuclear annhiliation is something you all must have thought
dialog: about. Any questions, comments, ideas?
text: No, Marty thought, glancing around. Everyone in the class apparently
dialog: agreed with him.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Anyone? I'm talking about the complete and total destruction of the
dialog: entire world. Doesn't anybody have anything to say about it?
text: No one raised a hand. Mr. Arky's face began to turn red.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: How about you, Mr. Jackson? he asked, raising his voice. Would you like
dialog: to share some of your wisdom with the class?
text: Jackson didn't look up from the textbook, ignoring the teacher. Marty
text: felt something brush against his foot and looked down to see the folded
text: note that he had given Suzy on the floor. He leaned over and scooped it
text: off the floor. Mr. Arky continued to ask for volunteers.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Mr. Gomez? Any thoughts? Miss Parker? Mr. Crump, any reaction?
text: Marty unfolded the note and looked at it. Beside the cloud the words,
text: That's sick! had been written in loopy cursive. Marty turned the page
text: over. On the back was the word, Yes. He smiled, then was rudely snapped
text: out of his thoughts by the science teacher's irritating voice.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: How about you, Mr. McFly?
text: Arky asked, strolling over to his desk. Marty quickly crumpled the note
text: and shoved it in his pocket before the teacher could see it. He stared
text: at his graffittied desk top, wishing Mr. Arky would go away.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Did you even hear the question, Mr. McFly?
text: Marty looked up, facing the inevitable. He might as well give his
dialog: honest opinion.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah... You want to know what I think about atomic bombs. Well, I'd
dialog: kind of like to see one.
text: Mr. Arky leaned forward so his face was a few inches from Marty's.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: You'd like to see a nuclear holocaust?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Not a holocaust --
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Mr. McFly here wants to nuke it all, just so he can see it!
text: A couple students started to laugh. Marty sat up straighter, glared at
dialog: the teacher.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You know damn well that's not what I meant.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: All I can say is, that's one helluva attitude, Mr. McFly. 'Let's
text: explode a hundred megaton Geothermal nuclear device, just to see it.'
text: Marty felt his face turn red with anger and embarrassment.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, explode it up your ass!
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Unfortunately, the way things are going, you may get your wish. You may
dialog: see the entire annhiliation of the world. If not, you'll certainly see
dialog: the destruction of all out natural resources. We can already see the
dialog: air we breathe, not to mention the pollution in our rivers and lakes.
dialog: We'll see all of our oil reserves depleted, in fact, all of our energy
dialog: sources. Yes, you people have a lot to look forward to -- a lot to see.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, Mr. Arky, gimme a break! (rolling his eyes) I'm seventeen years
dialog: old! I'm not responsible for all these problems!
text: The anger in Mr. Arky's face suddenly vanished. He sighed, a sound of
dialog: defeat.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: No, of course you're not. Not for the problems, no. But for the
dialog: solutions...yes.
text: The bell rang, ending the school day. Everyone leaped out of their
text: desks and rushed for the door.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: See you tomorrow.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL
text: Ten minutes later, Marty was outside at the front of school, heading
text: for a group of his friends, who were already giving other students
dialog: videotapes in return for cash.
speaker_heading: RAFE NEWTON
dialog: Hey Marty, (heading his way) sport me fifty 'til the weekend, would ya?
dialog: I'm down to my last twenty.
dialog: Marty shook his head.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Can't man. I'm savin' up for that new amp.
speaker_heading: RAFE NEWTON
dialog: Well, when you're a big rock star, how about loanin' me a grand?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You got it! (checking his watch) I gotta go.
text: Donaldson, one of his friends, stood next to him. He looked at Marty's
dialog: watch.
speaker_heading: DONALDSON
dialog: Hey man, what happened to your digital quartz?
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: In the shop, so I'm sporting this antique. (lifts his left hand with
dialog: the watch on it) Check out this wind-up action, (pointing to the gold
dialog: timepiece)
text: Donaldson looked at it with minor interest as the both of them went
text: down the front steps of the school.
speaker_heading: DONALDSON
dialog: Hey, you wanna come over? Get high?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Maybe tomorrow. I gotta dupe some more tapes.
dialog: Donaldson snapped his fingers.
speaker_heading: DONALDSON
dialog: Hey, that reminds me -- my brother's gettin' married next week and I'm
dialog: throwin' a party for him. Can you provide some entertainment?
text: Marty nodded, having the perfect thing in mind.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, I can run something off this afternoon.
scene_heading: INT. ORPHEUM THEATER - LABORATORY OF PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: The man and woman were really going at it now, breathing hard and
text: moaning. Typical sounds of sex. Marty watched for a moment, then shook
text: his head and turned away from the porno video he was copying for his
text: friend. Twisting the volume down as the couple started to get really
text: noisy, he fished some cash out of his pocket and placed it in the cigar
dialog: box where he was storing all the money he was saving to use for that
text: new amp. He got up from his chair and walked out of the room into
text: Professor Brown's lab.
text: The Professor was lying on his cot, asleep, with a heavy blanket
text: covering him. Marty walked quietly over to the refrigerator and opened
text: it, taking out a bottle of Coke. As he was pulling the soft drink out,
text: his hand accidentally bumped against an orange lying beside it. Before
text: he had a chance to catch it, it bounced out of the fridge and rolled
text: across the floor, vanishing under the cot.
text: Marty set down the Coke on top of the fridge and bent down to picked
text: the orange up. He pushed aside the blanket and saw a crate, purple
text: radioactive emblems on it. Marty frowned as he read the labels. Extreme
dialog: Danger! Radioactive Plutonium! Authorized Personal Only! Do Not Handle
dialog: Without Radiation Suit. Near the bottom were the words, Property of San
dialog: Onofre Nuclear Power Plant, San Onofre, California.
text: Right next to the word California was the orange. Taking a deep breath,
text: Marty stood up and kicked the orange out from under the cot with his
text: right foot. He slowly backed away, his eyes on the crate, before
text: picking the orange up and tossing it into the trash can next to the
text: refrigerator. Marty glanced at the Professor, relieved to see that he
dialog: hadn't woken up.
text: Trying to forget what he had seen, Marty picked the Coke bottle up and
text: twisted the cap off, taking a quick swig from it before walking over to
text: a cage with an organ-grinder monkey in it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, Shemp. (softly) How ya doin'?
text: The monkey gazed back at him with dark eyes. Marty unlatched the cage
text: door and let the animal out. Shemp quickly climbed up his arm and sat
text: on his shoulder. Marty crossed the room, over to the table where the
text: power converter was still set up, resting on some old blueprints. He
text: leaned over for a closer look at those.
dialog: The top blueprint was for something called, Photo-Electric Chemical
text: Power Converter. The sketch on the blueprint matched the power
text: converter that the Professor had been messing with earlier. Marty
text: flipped that blueprint back to look at the others one-by-one. 15 Tube
text: Mechanical Home Butler. It looked like some kind of robot. Aero-Mobile,
text: a weird-looking flying car. And a Write-O-Matic, which looked like a
text: pen with a suction cup at the end of an attached wire.
text: Marty let the blueprints flip back and stared at the power onverter.
text: The last few rays of the afternoon sunlight filtered through the
text: skylight and shone down on the photo-cell. Marty looked closer and
text: noticed a funnel shaped thingy jutting out of the chemical chamber. He
text: looked at it for a moment, temptation building, then reached over and
text: poured some of the Coke in the funnel.
text: He hadn't even pulled his arm back when a bright spark shot out of the
text: opposite end of the device, making a loud cracking noise. Marty jumped
text: several feet away, his heart pounding, almost dropping the bottle in
text: his hand.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: What happened?!
text: The Professor jumped out of his bed and ran over to the table where the
dialog: power converter sat.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, I'm not sure exactly -- I accidentally spilled some Coke in here.
dialog: (pointing to the funnel) Just a drop!
text: The Professor quickly hooked up the voltmeter and light bulb to the
dialog: converter.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Give me that!
text: Professor Brown snatched the bottle from Marty's hands. He poured some
text: more of the drink into the funnel. The bulb started glowing brightly
text: and the meter jumped. The whole thing started to make a humming noise.
text: Professor Brown dumped in more Coke. The light grew even brighter, then
dialog: suddenly exploded!
text: Marty flinched, but didn't turn away. He was dying to know what that
dialog: thing was supposed to be doing. He wanted to know almost as bad as he
text: wanted to get into that locked room several feet away. The voltmeters
text: needle raised off the scale as the power converter began to vibrate, so
dialog: violently that it fell off the table!
text: The Professor stared at the floor where the converter lay, his hands
text: starting to tremble. He had a strange look on his face, disbelief mixed
text: with excitement. He looked carefully at the Coke bottle.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: What's in this stuff?
text: Marty gave a shrug, not understanding why Professor Brown wanted to
dialog: know.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Nobody knows the formula for Coca-Cola. It's the most closely guarded
dialog: secret in the world!
text: The Professor was silent for a moment, his gaze far away. He finally
text: picked the power converter up and walked across the room, taking out a
text: key ring from his pocket.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I'll see you tomorrow!
text: He said as he began to unlock the forbidden door. Before Marty could
text: ask him any questions, the Professor opened the door and shut it firmly
text: behind him. Marty heard the sound of locks clicking into place, then
dialog: all was silent.
scene_heading: INT. McFLY HOUSE - MARTY'S BEDROOM
text: That evening, wearing headphones plugged into his turntable, Marty
text: walked around his bedroom, following the music on his own electric
text: guitar. Posters of rock stars covered the surrounding walls. He was
text: trying to find the drill he had been using earlier, moving the
text: miscellaneous junk that covered his furniture and floor with the top of
text: the guitar's neck. Under the Rolling Stone on the dresser were some
text: tools -- but not the drill. A couple issues of Heavy Metal and the
text: Lampoon hid some homework on the desk he had forgotten to turn in.
text: The record ended and Marty took the headphones off.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Who stole my drill? (yelling out the door)
text: Marty's mom shouted a reply.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Dinner's ready!
text: With a sigh, Marty set his guitar down and went downstairs.
scene_heading: INT. McFLY HOUSE - LIVING ROOM
text: He stopped in the living room on the way to the kitchen. His father,
text: George McFly, was sitting on the couch and watching a boxing match on
dialog: the TV.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Anybody seen the drill?
text: Dad continued to stare at the TV, ignoring or not hearing the question.
text: Eileen McFly looked into the living room from the kitchen.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I've been calling you for five minutes! Didn't you hear me?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I was practicing. I've got an audition next week -- I gotta practice.
dialog: How am I gonna get famous if I don't practice?
dialog: Mom shook her head. Once, a long time ago, she had been quite
dialog: attractive. Now, at the age of 47, it was easy to see the toll age had
text: taken. Her brown hair was streaked with grey and her face was puffy,
text: lined with wrinkles. Both of Marty's parents hadn't aged that
text: gracefully.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: You won't get famous if you don't eat, either!
text: She ducked back into the kitchen.
text: Marty turned back to his dad.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Dad, you seen the drill?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What drill?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The drill! (exasperated) The power drill I bought you for Christmas. I
dialog: was using it last night.
text: Dad didn't move his gaze from the TV.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It'll turn up.
text: Marty shook his head and went into the kitchen, sitting down as his
text: mother put the food on the table. She leaned back into the living room.
scene_heading: INT. McFLY HOUSE - KITCHEN
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: George, dinner's ready!
text: Marty's father continued to stare at the TV, fully absorbed in the
dialog: boxing match.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Coming, Eileen!
text: He makes no move to get up.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Now, George! Dinner's ready now!
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Coming, Eileen...
text: A moment later a commercial came on the TV and George McFly finally got
text: up and started to roll the TV on it's stand to the dining room.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: How was school today?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Fine.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Learn anything?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh yeah.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: (smiles) That's good.
text: His dad finished adjusting the TV and sat down.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
text: How was school today? (picking up a fork and starting to eat)
dialog: Hadn't he just done this?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Fine..
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Learn anything?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh yeah.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Good.
text: Dad turned his eyes back to the TV as the match resumed. Marty looked
text: down at the newspaper, examining the sports scores, and his mom stared
text: off into space. There was complete silence, during which the
text: sportscaster did his blow-by- blow on the TV. Eventually Mom spoke,
text: during another commercial break.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
text: By the way, that reminds me... (gesturing to the TV's burger ad)
dialog: Saturday night we're taking Grandma Stella out for Chinese food.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Eileen, Chinese food again?
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: George, if you don't want Chinese food, pick a place you want to go and
dialog: make a reservation.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That means he'll have to pick up the phone, Ma.
dialog: As expected, his dad backed down.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No, Chinese food is fine.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Saturday night's the 'Springtime in Paris' dance. I'm taking Suzy
dialog: Parker.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: (thoughtful) The 'Springtime in Paris' dance. You hear that, George?
dialog: They're still having the 'Springtime in Paris' dance... That was our
dialog: first date, remember George? I remember everything about that night.
dialog: Remember the first time we kissed? It was during the last dance. They
dialog: were playing that Eddie Fisher song, 'Turn Back the Hands of Time'. I
dialog: even remember how you asked me out. We were in the cafeteria. You were
dialog: so scared, you spilled your creamed corn.
text: Dad continued to look at the TV, not showing any sign of hearing his
dialog: wife.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: And I probably won't be here when you wake up Sunday morning. Suzy and
dialog: I are gonna go down to the lake and watch the sunrise.
text: His dad looked away long enough from the TV to frown at him.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: The sunrise? What for?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jeez, what do you think? To see it!
text: His dad turned away to the TV, the look on his face puzzled.
text: Unfortunately, his mom was not as easily distracted.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: You mean you're going to stay up all night?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mom, how else are we gonna see the sunrise?
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I don't think I like the idea of you staying out all night with a girl!
text: Mom decided, shaking her head firmly. Marty rolled his eyes.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, Ma, gimme a break.
text: Before they could discuss the subject any further, there was a heavy
text: pounding on the back door.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Would you answer that, George?
text: Eileen asked when no one else made a move to. Her husband ignored her.
text: Heaving a sigh, Marty finally stood up to answer it.
text: The visitor was not one of his favorite people. Biff Tannen stood on
text: the porch, his stomach hanging over the pants in his security guard
text: uniform. His shirt was untucked and the tie was undone. The patch on
text: his shoulder read Special Security Officer. He was a 47-year-old jerk
dialog: who liked to push his father around and Marty had no need for him
dialog: whatsoever. Biff felt the same way about him.
speaker_heading: BIFF
text: Well, well, he smirked when Marty opened the door. If it isn't the
dialog: neighborhood bootlegger, Al Capone McFly?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What do you want, Biff?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Show me some respect, you little asshole. It's Special Officer Tannen
dialog: to you.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (mumbles) The day I show respect to Biff Tannen will be the day I win a
dialog: million dollars... What's the matter, Biff, they're not showing you any
dialog: respect down at the golf course? Don't they realize what a tough job it
dialog: is keeping the criminal element away from the country club?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Listen you little Asshole, I oughta --
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What do you want, Biff?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Where's your old man?
text: Marty took a step back and pointed over his shoulder to the kitchen.
text: Biff pushed his way into the house and Marty saw he had a broken power
text: drill and some bits in hand. He suddenly felt sick.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hey McFly, what's with this cheap-ass drill you're giving me? Thing
dialog: burned up first time I used it! Almost ruined my whole engine block!
text: Marty shook his head in disgust as he sat down again at the table. His
text: dad immediately turned away from the TV.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Uh -- Biff... (pointing to the bits) These are wood bits. Says so right
dialog: here. You're not supposed to use them on your engine block.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Look, McFly, I know a lot about tools. This is a cheep-ass drill!
dialog: You're just lucky I didn't ruin my engine block. Next time you buy
dialog: tools, let me know. I'll help you pick out some good ones.
dialog: He handed George the drill.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Oh -- and one more thing. My kid's selling Girl Scout cookies. I told
dialog: her you were good for four boxes. Don't make me a liar!
text: George nodded quickly and Biff left, slamming the door behind him.
text: George turned to look at his wife, who gave at him a knowing,
text: sympathetic look.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: How do you like that guy, using wood bits on an engine block? (laughing
dialog: nervously)
text: Marty couldn't take it anymore. He jumped up from the table and ran
text: into the living room, grabbing his silver Porsche jacket out of the
dialog: closet.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Where are you going?
scene_heading: EXT. McFLY HOUSE
text: Marty opened the front door and slammed it shut in reply. He pulled his
text: jacket on as he crossed the front lawn. Reaching the mailbox, he gave
text: the numbers on it, 777, a good slug, then kicked his dad's car beside
text: it in the street for good measure.
scene_heading: EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - NIGHT
text: Half an hour later, he was walking down a neighborhood street with Suzy
dialog: Parker.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: ...He just lets himself get pushed around all the time! People walk all
text: over him and he never fights back, never stands up for himself.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: No self confidence, I guess... At least you don't take after him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah... Jesus! I wonder how he ever got up enough nerve to marry my
dialog: mom.
text: Suzy didn't say anything for a few moments.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: Can you imagine your parents in bed together?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No way!
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: Me neither. I've always wondered whether they slept together before
dialog: they got married. You think yours did?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hell no! The way my mom carries on about sex -- you even mention the
dialog: word and she goes into cardiac arrest. You shoulda seen her face when I
dialog: told her we were gonna stay up all night Saturday, he added. Always
text: afraid something is going to happen.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: (suddenly coy) Is something going to happen Saturday night?
text: Before Marty could answer her, a skateboard suddenly hit his foot. He
text: looked up to see two kids about fifty feet down the street, running an
text: obstacle course. The one who had been on the board was slowly getting
text: to his feet off the asphalt. Marty jumped on the board and skated over
text: to the kid. Maybe it was because Suzy was there, but he showed off as
text: he weaved through the obstacle, jumping over the last one and landing
text: perfectly, then flipping the board into the air and catching it. The
text: kids were wide-eyed as Marty handed it to the owner.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Wow, you're good!
text: Marty grinned and walked back over to an impressed Suzy.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Just like riding a bike -- you never forget how to do it.
scene_heading: EXT. SUZY'S HOUSE
text: A minute later they were standing in front of Suzy's house.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: Well... she said slowly. Here we are...
text: They stared at each other for a moment.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Thanks.
text: Marty said softly, leaning forward and kissing her.
text: Suzy smiled and walked to her door.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: See you later.
text: Marty watched her as she stepped inside, then turned around and started
dialog: to walk back home.
text: A black sedan slowly passed him. A moment later, Marty noticed
text: headlights shining from behind him and whirled around to see that the
text: black sedan had turned around and seemed to be following him. Marty saw
text: the car had the letters N.R.C. on it, like that van had. He stepped to
text: the side of the street, on the sidewalk, and the car pulled up beside
text: him and stopped. Two tall men dressed in black suits got out. They
dialog: looked like Secret Service men.
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
text: Good evening, one said. Agents Reese (points to his buddy) and Foley,
text: from the Nuclear Regulatory Commition. (pulls out ID and flashes it to
dialog: Marty) Mind stepping over here?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What's this all about?
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT FOLEY
dialog: Routine radiation check.
text: He took a Geiger counter from the car and ran it up and down Marty's
text: body. Nothing happened until it got by his feet, especially his right
text: foot. Then it made loud clicking noises. The two men exchanged some
dialog: kind of look.
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
dialog: Have you got any identification?
text: Marty handed him his wallet after a moment's hesitation.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What, am I radioactive or something?
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
dialog: No, no, not beyond an acceptable level. Have you been X-rayed recently,
dialog: Martin?
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT FOLEY
text: Perhaps been in contact with some luminous paint? Foley added.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (frowning at them) No...
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
dialog: Been any place unusual in the past twelve hours?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Home, school, here... (shrugs)
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT FOLEY
dialog: Been in the vicinity of 2980 Monroe Avenue today? asked Foley.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Where?
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
text: Over by the old Orpheum Theater.
text: Marty hesitated for a moment before answering. They were talking about
text: where Professor Brown lived. He remembered the box he had seen under
text: the bed. Suddenly, Marty had a million questions for the Professor.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No.
text: Reese finally handed him back his wallet.
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
dialog: Okay, Martin. You have a good evening now.
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: Yeah, (jamming his wallet back into his pocket) Right.
text: The two men got back into their car and drove off. Marty watched them a
text: moment, then sprinted the other way down the street!
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHEUM THEATRE - NIGHT
text: Marty ran through the streets all the way to the Orpheum Theater. The
text: street was deserted, save for a newspaper blowing down in the gutter.
text: Reaching the door to the upstairs of the dilapidated building, Marty
text: took hold of the knob and turned it. It resisted and he tried again,
text: hoping it was stuck. He juggled it around but it didn't budge. No doubt
text: about it. It was locked. Marty took a step back and looked up, at the
dialog: third floor.
text: A moment later the quiet of the night was shattered by all three of the
text: third floor windows being blown out by a huge gush of air! Jesus! Marty
text: gasped, ducking his head as shreds of glass rained down. A moment later
text: he tried the door again, but it was still locked.
text: After weighing the pros and cons of the matter, Marty broke the glass
text: window in the door and reached around to unlock it himself.
scene_heading: INT. ORPHEUM THEATER - LABORATORY OF PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Once inside, he ran up the steps to the lab. The first thing he noticed
dialog: was that the mysterious door with all the locks was completely un
text: locked! A crack of light shone brightly under the bottom of the door.
text: Marty opened it up and stepped inside. He blinked, wondering if he was
dialog: seeing right.
text: Professor Brown was standing next to what looked like a old furnace and
text: hot water heater thrown together with some boiler room parts. He had
text: one hand on a rope attached to a metal lever and was messing with some
text: dials and gauges with the other hand. Shemp, wearing his organ grinder
text: outfit, sat on a stool, a digital watch on a cord around his neck. Some
text: kind of long tube with lenses in it was pointed at him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor!
text: The Professor looked up, startled.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Get behind that lead shield!
text: The Professor ordered, pointing to a large grey sheet of metal next to
text: the wall. Marty stared at him incredulously.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But Professor --
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Get behind the shield! I'm about to release radiation!
text: Marty looked at him for a moment more, then darted behind the shield.
text: He watched from around the side of it as the Professor pulled the rope
text: a tiny bit. The next moment, all hell broke loose! The low hum all the
text: machinery made grew louder and high pitched. Static electricity
text: crackled in the air. The sounds grew louder and the monkey looked
text: around, curious. A minute later, the Professor let go of the rope, his
text: eyes on a watch, and a red beam of light -- like a laser -- hit Shemp
text: directly in the chest.
text: Marty winced at the high pitched noise in the room. Less then a second
text: after the laser -- or whatever it was -- hit the Professor's pet, Shemp
text: vanished, taking the top of the stool with him! Air suddenly rushed
text: into the room, whipping loose papers around. The noise died down and
text: Marty stepped out from behind the shield, his heart pounding from all
dialog: he had witnessed.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jesus!! Professor, you just disintegrated Shemp!
text: Professor Brown shook his head, a smile playing around his lips.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: No, Marty. Shemp's molecular structure is completely intact!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Then where the hell is he?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: The appropriate question to ask is when the hell is he! You see, Shemp
dialog: has just become the world's first time traveller. I've sent Shemp into
text: the future -- two minutes into the future to be exact.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The future? What are you talking about? Where's Shemp?!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Shemp is right here in this room...two minutes from now, and at exactly
dialog: 9:02PM, we'll catch up to him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Now hold on a minute, Professor! Hold the phone. Are you trying to tell
dialog: me that this -- all of this here -- that this is -- it's a -- a --
text: For some reason, he couldn't get the words out.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: ...a time machine.
dialog: Professor Brown confirmed with a nod.
text: Marty found a chair and sat down in it quickly before his legs could
text: give out on him.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I always knew it would work! I knew it would work when I built it
dialog: thirty three years ago. But I was never able to harness enough power to
dialog: test it. Power is the key. Massive amounts of energy to accelerate
text: matter to the speed of light while creating an intense gravitational
dialog: field. But generating that kind of energy has never been possible...
dialog: until this afternoon.
text: Marty took a couple of deep breaths as he waited for the room to stop
text: spinning around him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: A time machine! Because of that Coke?!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Precisely! (nods)
text: He walked around the room, pointing out various parts of the machinery
dialog: as explained.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: The power converter, now operating at peak efficiency, thanks to the
text: chemical makeup of Coca-Cola, channels energy into the flux capacitor,
text: which releases several jigowatts in a fraction of a millisecond.
dialog: Electron acceleration takes place here... and the result is the
dialog: temporal displacement beam you saw a few moments ago. The entire
dialog: process is triggered when I release the rope.
text: Marty finally stood, his legs still shaking a little from the shock.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I thought that power converter thing operated on solar energy. There's
dialog: no sun, (pointing to the ceiling and walls)
text: Not only was it night out, but all the windows had heavy shades drawn
text: over them.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Solar energy would have worked just fine...if I could have placed the
dialog: converter about a mile from the surface of the sun. Instead, I've
dialog: created similar conditions in this reactor here. (pointing to the rope)
dialog: The higher I raise the cadmium rods, the more energy I release from the
dialog: plutonium core, and the further through time I can send an object.
text: Marty snapped his fingers, suddenly remembering.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The plutonium! That's what I came over here for! Professor, where did
dialog: you get that stuff?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Why?
text: The inventor stared at him with suspicious, his eyes narrowed.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I just got stopped in the street by federal agents checking me for
dialog: radiation! I figure they're after your plutonium!
text: Professor Brown looked over at a digital clock on the wall. Marty
text: followed his gaze and saw that it was 9:01:50. Almost two minutes had
text: passed since the experiment. It had felt like twice that long.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Ten seconds!
text: The Professor dashed over to the place where his beam had hit Shemp.
text: Marty ran after him, stopping when his friend raised an arm.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Brace yourself for a sudden displacement of air!
text: Marty watched the clock. The seconds lasted forever.
dialog: 9:01:55...56...57... 58...59...
text: At that moment, a strong wind gusted in the room and Shemp suddenly
text: appeared, literally out of thin air. The top of the stool came back
text: with him and fell to the ground. The monkey screeched as he hit the
text: ground and scrambled onto some equipment nearby.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Shemp!
text: Professor Brown walked calmly over to the animal and picked him up. He
text: quickly looked him over, the monkey squirming to get free, then
text: examined the watch around his neck. He held it up for Marty to see.
text: 9:00:10. Marty checked the clock on the wall. 9:02:10.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Exactly two minutes difference... (triumphantly) and it's still
dialog: ticking!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Is Shemp all right?
text: Professor Brown set the monkey down on the ground he quickly ran off to
text: the other side of the room.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Of course. Shemp is unaware that anything even happened, other than his
text: stool suddenly falling over. We had to wait two minutes to catch up to
dialog: him, but for Shemp the trip was instantaneous.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor, can this thing send Shemp back in time?
text: The Professor thought about that for a moment.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Theoretically, yes, if I were to reverse the polarity.
text: He pointed to a switch near the rope with a plus and minus at opposite
text: ends. It was currently up in the plus position.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jeez, Professor, you've got a gold mine here!
text: The Professor frowned, as if he didn't understand.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: A gold mine?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Sure! Listen -- we take the racing results from today's paper...
text: He grabbed an newspaper from earlier that day at a nearby table and
text: quickly flipped through to the sports scores.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Here they are. We send 'em with Shemp back to yesterday, we get the
dialog: information, put our money on the winning horses, and become
dialog: billionaires!
text: Professor Brown started to shake his head.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Marty, that would alter history.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: So what? We'd be rich!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Don't you understand? The mere act of sending matter back in time would
dialog: change the course of events, and changing history is a responsibility
dialog: that I do not wish to bear.
text: Marty sighed, lowering the paper.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: All I know is you're throwing away an awful lot of money.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: The future, Marty, the future is everything! I built this machine to
dialog: see the future. So I am going to send Shemp twenty-four hours into the
dialog: future. You can assist me, if you like.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Sure, he agreed quickly.
text: The Professor left the room for a moment, saying something about a
text: cassette recorder. Marty waited for a second, then quickly ripped the
text: racing results off the sports page and circled the date with a pen that
text: had been in his pocket. He went over to Shemp, stuffed the clipping in
text: the pocket on his vest, then glanced out the door. The Professor was
text: rifling through the papers on his desk, his back to the door. Marty
text: rushed over to the polarity switch and yanked the lever to the minus
text: sign. A couple seconds later, Professor Brown returned, a Micro-
text: cassette recorder in hand. He locked the door, then handed the recorder
dialog: to Marty.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Take this, stand at the panel.(pointing to a wall of switches near the
dialog: beam) and read off the radiation levels. I want to have a record of
dialog: what happens here. Be sure to tell me when we reach 85 rads.
text: Marty nodded and stepped over to the panel. Right before him was a
text: meter with the rads levels. He had his eyes on it as Professor Brown
text: fixed the stool a few feet away.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Come on, Shemp, this won't hurt a bit.
text: The Professor murmured as he picked up the monkey and placed him on the
text: stool again. After doing that, he returned to the rope switch, across
text: the room from where Marty stood and on the other side of Shemp. Marty
text: watched him carefully, but he didn't seem to notice the lever at the
dialog: minus sign.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Here we go!
text: The Professor warned, throwing a few switches. The equipment started
text: humming again and Professor Brown slowly reached for the rope and
text: started tugging on it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Radiation level, 10 rads.
text: Marty said looking at the meter, holding the microphone in the recorder
text: up to his mouth as he spoke.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Stabilization coefficient, .43. 16 rads coefficient .44. 37 rads, .46.
dialog: 51 rads, .46. 73 rads, .47...
text: Marty heard a loud noise from behind him and spun around to see the
text: locked door kicked open. The dust hadn't even cleared before Marty
text: realized it was the N.R.C. agents, Reese and Foley. Behind them he saw
text: a huge throng of police and other official people. The agents jumped
text: into the room with .38 guns drawn.
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
dialog: Everybody freeze! N.R.C.!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Get back!
text: Professor Brown cried, waving his left hand. The other one was still
text: holding onto the rope.
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT FOLEY
dialog: Jesus Christ! (seeing the machine the Professor was standing beside)
dialog: It's a Goddamn reactor!
text: Reese pointed his gun at Professor Brown.
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
dialog: You! Shut it down! Now!
text: Marty stared at the whole scene, mouth hanging open. He felt strangely
text: detached from it, almost as if it was a play or a scene in a movie he
text: was watching. The microphone fell from his hand, dangling on it's cord
text: around his feet.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: No! . Get out! I'm in the middle of an experiment!
text: He moved closer to the reactor, pulling the rope tighter as he did so.
text: Foley didn't hesitate. He swung his gun at the Professor and squeezed
text: the trigger. The loud bang echoed in the room. Shemp screeched and
text: leaped off the stool. Marty watched, horrified, as the bullet hit his
text: friend right in the chest. The Professor staggered back, hand still
text: clenched around the rope. He fell backwards to the floor, the rope
text: pulling taut as he landed.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor!
text: Marty yelled, finally finding his voice. He whipped his head to check
dialog: the meter.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh my God! Release the rope! It's 4200 rads!
text: Reese stared at him, shaking his head. It was too noisy in the room for
dialog: Marty to be heard.
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT REESE
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Pro! Release the rope!
text: It was so noisy he could hardly hear his own voice! Reese shook his
text: head again. Marty started for the Professor himself. Foley turned the
text: gun on him.
scene_heading: N.R.C. AGENT FOLEY
dialog: Freeze!
text: Marty stopped, standing right before the stool where Shemp had once
text: been. He raised his hands, showing he didn't have anything on him. The
text: recorder and microphone was now in his jacket pocket. He couldn't
dialog: remember putting it there with all the excitement.
text: Marty's eyes darted over to the Professor. As he watched, the
text: Professor's grip suddenly relaxed and the rope swung loosely in the
text: air. Marty suddenly realized he was right in the line of the focusing
text: lense. A bright white light shot out from it and hit him square in the
text: chest. Marty looked down at it for a moment, a little curiously, then
text: looked up at the people in the room. Reese and Foley stared at him,
text: startled looks on there faces. Suddenly the whole room turned bright,
text: blinding white, like a million cameras flashing at once. Then, less
text: then a second later, everything was plunged into a deep, black silence.
scene_heading: INT. DARK STOREROOM
text: Professor? Marty asked, straining his eyes in the darkness, trying to
dialog: see something, anything. But everything was completely and utterly
dialog: black.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hello? (listening hard for any sound)
text: After a moment, Marty reached into his pocket and pulled out a
text: matchbook. He ripped a match free and struck it against the sandpaper.
text: Marty held it up as it lit, looking around the room. It looked like he
text: was in some kind of storeroom. Marty took a step forward, almost
text: running into an old broken chair. He dodged it last minute and strolled
text: slowly around the room, trying to figure out where the hell he was.
text: Dusty furniture and crates littered the room.
text: The match was starting to burn Marty's fingers and he dropped it,
text: fumbling to light another. He walked towards the door, having the
text: nagging feeling that something was strangely out of place. Where the
text: hell am I? he wondered. Marty reached for the doorknob and tried
text: turning it. Locked.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Damn!
text: He looked around for a way out. Marty spotted a window and went over to
text: it, holding his breath as he tried to slide it open. It slid and he
text: carefully climbed outside on to a fire escape. He scrambled down the
text: unstable structure and dropped to the alley below.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: Just as his feet scraped the pavement, Marty noticed a pair of
text: headlights approaching him, fast. He stood there for a minute, frozen
text: in the beams, then jumped back and pressed himself against the wall of
text: the building. The truck sped by, missing him by inches!
text: Marty let out a loud sigh of relief as he watched the truck drive off,
text: then noticed the sign on the door that he was right next to. Wilson's
text: Cafe, Rear Entrance, it said. Marty tried the door, expecting it to be
text: locked. But the knob turned freely in his hand. Strange. For as long as
text: he could remember the back door had been locked.
dialog: Marty stepped inside.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, since when are you open at...
text: He started to say, then stopped when he got a good look around. It
dialog: couldn't be Wilson's Cafe!
text: Everything in the room looked brand new...but at the same time, old.
text: Dick wasn't behind the counter a woman of maybe thirty was. Marty
text: looked up at the menu and gasped.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Since when were roast beef sandwiches 30 cents, and an ice cream sunday
dialog: 15 cents?
text: He tore his eyes off the prices long enough to notice the people. Boy,
text: did he notice them! All the men were in double-breasted suits, with
dialog: hats. And not baseball caps, either! Marty noticed all the women were
text: in skirts -- long skirts. Not one was in any type of pants, like jeans.
dialog: And the way people had their hair done.... Those styles went out ages
dialog: ago!
text: A chubby five-year-old boy, dressed in pajamas, was playing on the
text: floor with some trucks. Marty almost tripped over him as he walked
text: slowly around, his mouth open with amazement, gazing at everything.
text: After a moment he realized the woman behind the counter was staring at
text: him, a suspicious look on her face. You want something, kid? she asked,
text: leaning forward across the counter.
text: Marty hesitated for a moment, then sat down. He decided he needed to
text: blend in as much as he could. The silver Porsche jacket alone that he
dialog: had on was causing way too many stares.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, yeah... Gimme a Tab.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: What? (frowning)
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: A Tab.
text: The waitress rolled her eyes.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Kid, I can't give you the tab until you order something.
text: Marty tried to ignore the stares everyone was giving him and looked
text: down at the counter. He saw the man beside him had a cup of coffee.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, coffee.
text: She reached over and poured him a cup.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Did something happen to you, kid? I mean, you been lost in the woods or
dialog: something?
text: Marty looked at her blankly.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Huh? (noticing a bowl of sugar cubes on the counter) Say, have you got
dialog: any Sweet 'N Low?
text: The waitress stared at him.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Sweet and what? (suddenly lifting the coffee away from him) Maybe you'd
dialog: better pay for this first.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Sure,.
text: Marty said with a shrug. He reached for his wallet and took out a
text: twenty dollar bill, holding it out to the waitress. Her eyes bugged out
text: and her mouth dropped open.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: A twenty? What do you think this is, a bank? I can't break a twenty!
dialog: (eyes narrowing suspiciously) Say, what's a kid your age doing with all
dialog: this money?
text: Marty quickly stuffed the bill back in his wallet. Now everyone in the
text: cafe was staring at him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Look, maybe I'd better talk to Dick. Is he around?
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Dick? Dick who?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Now who's being stupid? The guy who runs this place.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: I run this place! (eyes once again narrow)
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What happened to Dick Wilson?
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Dick Wilson? Dickie Wilson? Dickie Wilson runs this place? That's a
dialog: laugh!
text: Marty felt his face redden as everyone in the room started to laugh
text: with the waitress.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What are you trying to do? Freak me out, or something?
speaker_heading: MAN WITH COFFEE
dialog: Freak?
text: The man beside him with the coffee asked.
speaker_heading: MAN WITH COFFEE
dialog: Are you from some circus? Is that what all that writing on your clothes
dialog: means?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Haven't you ever heard of designer labels? (glaring at him)
text: He heard soft footsteps from behind the counter and saw the little
text: five-year-old run up to the woman.
speaker_heading: DICKIE
dialog: Mommy, I'm hungry, he whined.
dialog: The waitress smiled.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Just take a candy bar, then go to bed, Dickie.
dialog: Marty did a double take.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Dickie? That's Dick Wilson?
dialog: The waitress nodded.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: That's Dick Wilson.
text: Marty watched the kid grab a Babe Ruth off the candy counter and
text: scamper off. He was about to turn away from the sight when he noticed a
text: calendar behind the cash register. A calendar that had the number 1952
text: in big black letters.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 1952? (voice rising) This is 1952?! Holy shit! You know what this
dialog: means? I've gone back in time thirty years! Thirty Goddamn years! I
dialog: haven't even been born yet!
text: The waitress took one look at him and reached for a phone.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: I'm calling the cops.
text: Marty jumped off the stool and ran out the front door, stopping dead in
dialog: the middle of the street. Everything had changed!
scene_heading: EXT. MONROE AVENUE
text: Monroe Avenue, once full of old, rotting buildings, was now a bustling,
dialog: thriving business district! Cars from the '40's and '50's ran up and
text: down the streets. People were everywhere, walking along the streets,
text: stopping in the shops. Marty was so shocked to see what he was seeing
text: he didn't notice the strange, suspicious looks the towspeople were
text: flashing at him, or the drivers honking at him as they swerved to avoid
text: hitting him.
text: He turned and noticed the Orpheum Theater. It, too, had changed! Boy,
text: had it! The marquee was lit up with the words: John Wayne, Maureen
text: O'Hara -- The Quiet Man. In Full Color! People streamed into it and
text: from the looks of the place, it was a first class movie theater.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Dammit!
text: He noticed a man walking by with a newspaper in hand. Marty ran over to
text: him and snatched the paper away, ignoring the owner's protest as he
text: scanned the front page for the date. March 11, 1952.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 1952! God dammit!
text: Marty threw the paper down on the sidewalk and ran down the street. He
text: stopped beside an old car and checked out the license plate. Besides
dialog: the fact it looked nothing like the plates he was used to, it also said
dialog: --
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 1952! Dammit!
text: Marty ran off again, noticing a phone booth. It was empty, so he
dialog: stopped.
scene_heading: INT. PHONE BOOTH
text: Marty went inside and grabbed the phone book. He frantically riffled
text: through the pages, to the listings of Browns. After a minute, he
text: located it and ran his finger down the column to: Brown, Emmett L., 788
text: W. Spruce. Madison 3489. Marty pulled the Bic pen out from his pocket
text: and circled the line. Then he reached into his pocket again and pulled
dialog: out all the change he had. One nickel and three pennies.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Dammit!
text: Marty picked up the receiver anyway and dialed zero.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Operator...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Operator! Listen, this is an emergency! I have to make this call, but I
dialog: don't have a dime -- all I got is a nickel -- but you gotta connect me
dialog: --
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Sir, it only costs a nickel.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Local calls cost five cents. What number do you want?
text: Marty looked up and saw the words, Local Calls 5 Cents written in plain
text: sight on the telephone.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh -- right! Uh, Madison 3489.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Five cents, please.
text: Marty placed the nickel inside the coin slot and listened as the number
dialog: ran several times.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: I'm sorry, there's no answer.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Operator, what's today's date?
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: March 11th.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What year?
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Nineteen fifty --
dialog: Marty shook his head.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Dammit!
text: He slammed the receiver down and ripped the page out of the phone book,
text: stuffing it in his pocket. Then he got out of the phone booth and ran
text: down the street.
scene_heading: EXT. McFLY/BAINES HOUSE
text: Marty didn't know how long he had been running before he found himself
text: on a residential street. It looked vaguely familiar, but he was too
text: exhausted by the recent events to figure out why. He leaned against a
text: mailbox, trying to catch his breath, when he happened to look down at
text: the numbers on it. 777. Marty spun around and stared at the house.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: My house!
dialog: It looked like his house. It was! But there were some weird things,
text: like the trees not being as tall, different curtains, and a old Chevy
text: in the driveway. Marty watched as the front door opened and a woman
text: pushed the screen door open to let out a dog. Marty gasped. The woman
dialog: was his mother!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mom!
text: Marty raced to the front door. She didn't notice him and shut the door.
text: Marty ran up the steps and pounded on the front door.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mom! Open up! It's me!
text: After a few seconds the door opened and his mom stood in the doorway.
text: She stared at Marty without a shred of recognition.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mom, thank God! Thank God you're here!
text: His mother stared at him blankly.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: I bed your pardon, young man?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mom! It's me! Marty! Don't you know your own son!
text: Mom started to close the door, her expression uneasy.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: I think you have the wrong house.
text: Marty shook his head frantically.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No -- no -- it's not! (panting) It's not!
text: A man smoking a pipe approached Marty's mother from behind.
speaker_heading: MR. BAINES
dialog: Who's there, Stella?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Stella!? No! Don't tell me you're Stella! Tell me you're Eileen! Please
dialog: tell me you're Eileen!
text: In the background, Marty saw a teenage girl come down the staircase.
text: She heard the last part of the conversation and went over to the door,
text: pushing her way past the woman.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I'm Eileen.
text: He stared into her hazel eyes.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: How old are you?
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: (smiles) Seventeen.
text: Marty stared at her for a moment more, breathing hard, before his eyes
text: rolled back in his head and he slumped to the ground in a dead faint!
scene_heading: INT. BAINES HOUSE
text: Marty smelled something funny. He made a face and turned his head, but
text: the smell followed him. He slowly opened his eyes and looked up into
text: the face of someone he knew. It looked a lot like him, only he didn't
dialog: look as old. Then Marty remembered -- he was in 1952!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor? Professor Brown?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: (whispers covertly) You know me?
text: The Professor removed the smelling salts from under Marty's nose now
text: that he was awake. It was only then Marty realized he was stretched out
text: on a couch in a living room that looked an awful lot like his own.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor, you time machine works! It works! It sent me back in time!
dialog: I'm from 1982!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Ssshhhhh!
text: Professor Brown said, holding up his hand. His expression was both
text: thoughtful and suspicious. Marty heard footsteps and turned his head to
text: see his grandfather, grandmother, and mother, all looking thirty years
text: younger, edging closer to the couch to get a look at him.
speaker_heading: MR. BAINES
dialog: Is he all right?
text: The Professor straightened up.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: He will be. Simple inebriation, is all. The young man must have a
text: rather low tolerance for alcohol... something that runs in the family.
dialog: You see, he's a second cousin of mine on my mother's side. Came quite a
dialog: distance to visit me, he added. His name's Lewis.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Marty.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Uh, Marty Lewis! I almost didn't recognize him -- haven't seen him in
dialog: years.
text: Eileen stared at Marty and he looked back at her, fascinated that this
dialog: young teenager was -- would be -- his mother! She looked so
dialog: different... attractive, even!
speaker_heading: STELLA
dialog: It's a good thing he had your name circled in the phone book. I would
dialog: have called the police.
text: Professor Brown leaned over and helped Marty sit up.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Well, Mrs. Baines, Mr. Baines, thank you for your trouble. Both Marty
dialog: and I apologize for the inconvenience. We'll get him home and as good
dialog: as new.
text: Mr. Baines looked sharply at Marty and shook his finger at him.
speaker_heading: MR. BAINES
dialog: Son, you watch yourself!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Oh!
text: Eileen began, going over to a chair a few feet away and picking up the
text: silver jacket of Marty's.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Here's your jacket!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, thanks...
text: Eileen held up the jacket and gave it a quizzical look.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: What kind of material is this? I've never seen anything like it.
text: He took it from her hand.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It's polyester.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Poly-what?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: It's an experimental invention of mine. Sort of a rubberized silver-
dialog: foil. I just made up a name for it. Come on, Marty. We've got a lot to
dialog: talk about.
text: Marty followed the Professor. He was just about to step out the door
dialog: when Eileen stopped him.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Marty?
dialog: He turned.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Have we ever met before?
text: She asked with a puzzled look on her face. Marty's eyes met hers, but
text: before he could open his mouth, the Professor grabbed his arm and
text: pulled him out the door.
speaker_heading: INT. CAR
text: Fifteen minutes later, the Professor's 1937 Packard was pulling into
text: the driveway of a huge Victorian mansion on the outskirts of town.
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: ...and the flux capacitor is hooked into this thing that looks like a
text: condenser with a lense on it...
text: Marty was saying as Professor Brown stopped the car. He looked at the
text: house for the first time and let out a low whistle as they both got out
text: of the car. Even in the dark, Marty was able to see how fancy it was.
scene_heading: EXT. BROWN MANSION
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jeez -- this is where you used to live, huh? You must have been rich!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Must have been? Used to live? I do live here.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, yeah.
text: They started to walk up the drive to the front door.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, there's a mall here now -- I mean, there will be.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: A mall?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, a shopping mall. You know, a shopping mall?
text: Professor Brown held his hands up and shook his head.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Ssshhhhh -- don't tell me these things, Marty. I don't want to know
dialog: about the future.
scene_heading: INT. BROWN MANSION
text: He opened the front door and stepped inside the living room. Marty
text: looked around as the Professor switched on the lights. Professor Brown
text: held his hands up and shook his head.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Do you see it here?
text: The living room was filled with antique furniture, pieces of different
text: mechanical devices lying everywhere. It was easy to see that the
dialog: Professor's love of inventing was just beginning, since everything was
text: still relatively neat. But there was no sign of the time machine. Marty
dialog: shook his head.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No.
text: Professor Brown walked across the room and into another one. This one
text: appeared to be a study. Bookshelves lined the walls, filled with old
text: volumes. On the desk in the center of the room, Marty recognized little
text: models of that one robot and flying car he had seen plans of in the
text: future. The Professor watched Marty as he glanced about the room, but
text: he had to shake his head again. No time machine.
text: The Professor crossed the room, over to a door at the far end of the
text: study. He pulled out a key and unlocked it, pushing it open. He
text: switched a light on inside and gestured for Marty to come over. Marty
text: only had to glance at the room for a second before recognizing the time
text: machine. It looked a little less run down, cleaner and shinier, but it
dialog: was the time machine nonetheless. This is it!
text: Professor Brown placed the key back in his pocket and looked hard at
dialog: Marty.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: You've convinced me that you must be who you say you are. No living
dialog: human has ever seen this machine. (frowns) But why? Why even in my
dialog: twilight years would I remotely consider sending someone back in time?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You didn't, Professor. It was an accident! You see, what happened --
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: No! Don't tell me! I don't want to know the future! My knowledge of
dialog: future events... your mere presence here... could have devastating
dialog: effects on the course of history. And altering history is a
dialog: responsibility that I do not wish to bear. My immediate response is to
dialog: send you back to your own time.
text: Marty had heard the Professor say almost those exact same words when he
dialog: had wanted to send Shemp back in time with the sports scores. It seemed
dialog: like a million years ago even though, technically, it was thirty years
dialog: in the future. But this time he agreed with the Professor. He wanted to
dialog: go home.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I can dig that.
text: Professor Brown gave him a strange, puzzled look.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Pardon me?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh. That expression probably hasn't been invented yet... I can get
dialog: behind -- I agree with you.
text: The phone rang in the study. The Professor left the room with the time
text: machine to answer it. Marty followed him and checked out the models on
text: the desk while the Professor picked up the phone on the third ring. He
dialog: didn't mean to listen on the conversation, but it was kind of hard not
dialog: to.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Hello? (pause) Yes Charles, yes, I looked over the offer. (pause) It's
dialog: very generous that they want to make me a major stockholder. But I'm
dialog: just not interested in a position with this little X-rox corporation...
dialog: If it's pronounced 'Zerox', why don't they spell it with a Z?... Look,
text: I'm on the verge of a breakthrough on my power converter.
text: Marty dropped the little car he had been looking at when the Professor
dialog: said that. The power converter! How could he have forgotten! It needed
dialog: nuclear power and he didn't think there was any now, at least none that
dialog: they could get there hands on. Did that mean he was... stuck here?
text: Professor Brown continued to talk on the phone, not noticing the sick
text: expression on Marty's face.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: ...Well, any day now. And then I'll need people to work for Emmett
dialog: Brown Industries! I've got a lot of ideas that are going to create a
dialog: lot of jobs. Very well, good night, Charles.
text: The Professor shook his head as he hung up the phone.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: The X-rox Corporation. How are they going to sell a product if you
dialog: can't even pronounce the name?
text: He turned back to Marty.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Now... the time machine works, that's obvious. As I've always known,
dialog: it's a question of power. Where did I -- will I get enough power to
dialog: send a man thirty years through time?
text: Marty opened his mouth to tell him, but Professor Brown quickly held up
text: his hands.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: No -- wait -- don't tell me!
text: He didn't say anything for a long moment, then shook his head.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: On second thought, there may be some things you'll have to tell me.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The power converter...
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Of course! The power converter! It works! Of course, it works...
dialog: (looking to Marty) What chemicals do we use?
text: Marty hesitated, slowly taking a deep breath before starting.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, Professor, are you sure you want me to tell you? You know,
dialog: changing the course of history and all....
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Blast it -- no, I suppose you're right.... You do know the proper
dialog: chemical formula?
dialog: Marty nodded.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Sure, and there won't be any problem getting some -- Getting it...
text: He stopped. He had almost blurted it out.
text: The Professor walked over to a bar and pulled a glass bottle of brandy
text: out of the cabinet.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Coke?
text: He started to pour the alcohol in a glass.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (stunned) How did you know?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Just a guess. I figured kids would still be drinking Coke in 1982.
text: Marty let out all the breath he had been holding. So he didn't know
dialog: that was the secret formula after all.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: All right, then it's very simple, (tossing Marty a bottle of Coke as he
dialog: spoke) Tomorrow, weather permitting, you'll get the chemicals, and
dialog: we'll wire the power converter to the time machine, point it at the
dialog: sun, and send you home.
text: Marty hesitated again. He had a feeling that what he was about to say
dialog: would not really please the
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor. Well, not exactly, Professor. You see, we don't point it at
dialog: the sun.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: We don't....
text: The Professor lifted up his drink to his lips.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No...
text: Marty took a deep breath. He had gone this far. He might as well go all
dialog: the way.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: We need a nuclear reactor.
text: Professor Brown choked on his drink.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: A nuclear reactor! How much energy do we need?
text: Marty shrugged -- then remembered the Micro-Cassette Recorder! He still
text: had it with him, in his pocket. He took it out and rewound it, then hit
text: play and set it on the Professor's desk. Professor Brown looked at it
text: strangely, but didn't ask any questions. He sat down at his desk and
text: the two of them listened as it played back. After a couple minutes, it
dialog: got to the important part.
speaker_heading: MARTY (on tape)
dialog: Release the rope! It's 4200 rads!
text: The tape grew silent. It had reached the end. Professor Brown reached
text: out and picked up the recorder, staring at the buttons for a minute
text: before pressing the one to stop it. He didn't say anything for a
dialog: moment, then:
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: 4200 rads? Good God!
text: Marty was trying to twist the top of the Coke bottle, but for some
dialog: reason it wouldn't turn.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: There's something I still don't understand.
text: The Professor picked the recorder up again and rewound it.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Fascinating device, he commented as it spun back.
text: Professor Brown stopped it and played back the gunshot sounds.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: These loud bangs... could those be some sort of malfunction in the time
dialog: machine? Do you know what they are?
text: Marty gripped the Coke bottle so hard his knuckles turned white. He
dialog: couldn't tell Professor Brown that those sounds were him being shot!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I wouldn't worry about 'em, Professor.
text: A minute passed while the tape replayed.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: 4200 rads... That certainly can't be generated under controlled
dialog: conditions in this day and age.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That's just great!
text: Marty still tried to get that Coke bottle open. It was like the cap was
dialog: welded on there!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: However...there's a lot I don't know about nuclear physics. So first
dialog: think in the morning, I'll go to the University and see what I can find
dialog: out. I want you to stay in the house, (pointing a finger at Marty)
dialog: It's very important that you don't interfere in any way with the
dialog: outside world. I've got plenty of food, there's the radio, books,
dialog: magazines... I've even got one of those new television sets. There's
dialog: plenty to do.
text: Professor Brown stared at Marty as he twisted and turned that cap in
dialog: every imaginable way possible.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: What are you doing?
text: Marty gave up and held the bottle out.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: How do you open these?
text: The Professor took the bottle from his hand and picked up a bottle
text: opener lying nearby. A second later he handed it back, now without the
text: top. Marty looked down at the Coke in his hand, then up at the
dialog: Professor.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It doesn't look good, does it, Professor?
dialog: Professor Brown shook his head.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: At the moment, it looks like you're stuck here.
scene_heading: INT. BROWN MANSION - NEXT MORNING
text: Early the next morning, Professor Brown walked down the hall to the
text: room he had given Marty McFly late the night before. He stopped and
text: listened carefully, hearing no sound from the other side. After a
text: minute he reached for the doorknob and turned it. The Professor pushed
text: the door open a couple of inches, sticking his head around the side of
text: the door to peer inside.
text: The shades were wide open, the first rays of sunlight slanting across
text: the room over to the bed. Marty was lying on top of the queen bed on
text: his back, one arm hanging over the side of the bed, still fully dressed
text: in his 1982 clothes. His eyes were closed and he appeared to be asleep.
text: The Professor studied him for a moment, then slowly stepped inside the
text: room and crept across to the table next to the bed, where the Cathedral
text: Radio rested and the small cassette recorder. He had come in to get a
text: closer look at the future object.
text: Professor Brown carefully picked the recorder up and examined it. His
text: finger accidentally hit the play button and a loud burst of
text: conversation came out. The Professor swore under his breath as he
text: fumbled for the stop button. His eyes flew to Marty as he quickly set
text: the recorder on the table again. Marty let out a deep sigh, eyes still
text: closed, and rolled over.
text: Professor Brown waited a moment, to make sure Marty wasn't going to
text: awaken. He listened to his slow, deep breathing for a second, then
text: quickly crossed the room to the door. The Professor eased it shut and
text: continued down the hall. He had to get to the University and look up
dialog: the information about nuclear physics. Hopefully, there would be a
dialog: answer to send Marty back to the future.
text: Marty felt warm sunlight on his face. He threw an arm across his still-
text: closed eyes to block it out, along with the memories. Pieces of the
text: night before came back to him, being in 1952. Maybe, Marty thought, it
dialog: was just a dream. All I have to do is open my eyes and I will see that
dialog: it was all part of some bizarre dream....
text: He sighed as his eyes focused on his surroundings. It wasn't a dream.
text: He was lying on the bed in the room that Professor Brown had given him
text: the night before. He was still in 1952.
text: Marty reached over and clicked on the old radio by the bed, mostly out
text: of habit. He waited a few seconds, expecting to hear some old song, but
text: nothing came on. He hit it a few times, wondering if it was broken.
dialog: Only a minute later did sound slowly come on, and it was horrible!
text: Marty made a face as he rolled over and twisted the tuning dial,
dialog: skimming the different stations for something better. Nothing that
text: even remotely resembled any type of rock 'n roll came on. Marty flipped
text: the radio off, shaking his head in disgust.
text: He got off the bed and left his room, wandering downstairs to the
text: kitchen. He opened a cabinet and found a coffee pot. As he was taking
text: it out of the cabinet, it slipped from his hands and crashed onto the
text: hardwood floor, separating into different pieces. Marty swore and knelt
text: down, trying to get it back together. After a minute, he gave up and
dialog: set it aside.
text: Marty turned to the refrigerator and pulled it open. He fished out a
text: bottle of milk and took off the little piece of foil at the top. Taking
text: a glass off the counter, he set it on the kitchen table and lifted up
text: the bottle to pour some milk in the glass. Nothing came out. Marty held
text: it up and looked down the neck, noticing a cardboard plug keeping the
text: milk in. He stuck a couple fingers down there, trying to pull it out -
text: but he couldn't get ahold of it! With a sigh of annoyance, Marty
text: finally just pushed his fingers through the cardboard and poured the
text: milk in the glass.
text: After pulling the bottle back in the refrigerator, Marty sat down at
text: the kitchen table to drink his milk. He noticed some magazines and
text: newspapers spread out and lifted a couple of them up for a closer look.
dialog: The issue of Time had a cover story titled, The Republicans: Who Will
text: Win in '52? Photos of the men involved were splashed on the cover.
text: Marty stared at it for a moment.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Eisenhower...
dialog: He picked up a Newsweek. Will We Have War With Russia This Year? the
text: cover asked in big bold letters.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No...
text: He took a look at the local newspaper. Crime Rate Continues to Rise!
text: the headline screamed. Marty shook his head and noticed a Saturday
text: Evening Post lying nearby. A picture of some high school students were
text: on the cover with the words, What's Wrong With the Younger Generation?
text: He laughed and flipped the magazine over. An ad for Van Heusen Shirts
dialog: had Ronald Regan in it.
text: Jesus, Marty muttered when he saw it, shaking his head again. The
text: doorbell rang. Marty looked up from the periodicals, uneasy. He stayed
text: seated, remembering the Professor's instructions from the night before.
text: The bell rang again and Marty got up from the table and walked slowly
text: through the dining room and living room to the front door. He stopped a
text: few feet away from it, staring hard at the wood and feeling torn.
text: The doorbell rang for a third time. What if it was someone in trouble?
dialog: What if someone was hurt and needed to use the phone? Would it be such
dialog: a bad thing, then, if he answered the door?
text: Aw, what the hell, he thought. Marty stepped forward and opened the
dialog: door.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Aha!
text: Professor Brown exclaimed, shoving a finger at Marty's chest from the
dialog: porch.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: You answered the door!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You were ringing the doorbell!
text: Marty took a step back as the Professor walked inside.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I told you not to interfere with any of the events of this time!
dialog: Nobody's supposed to see you here! What if I was a mailman? Or a
dialog: salesman?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What if you lost your keys?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Then I would have figured out to get back in through the events in the
dialog: natural course of history! Don't you understand? The fabric of history
dialog: is very delicate. Anything you do could have serious consequences!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, look, gimme a break! All I did was answer the door! How's that
dialog: gonna change history?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I don't know, but I don't want to take any chances! Now you stay here
dialog: and don't do anything. Don't answer the door, don't answer the phone,
dialog: don't go outside. Understand?
text: Marty rolled his eyes, having it up to here with the lecturing!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, get off my case, would you? I didn't want to come here, and the
dialog: only reason I'm here in the first place is because I was a nice guy,
dialog: helping you out. So don't tell me I gotta stay cooped up in here and
dialog: vege out, because none of this is my fault!
text: Professor Brown appeared unaffected by the speech.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Let me put it on a level you can understand. You don't belong here. You
dialog: don't know anything about this world. You don't know the customs, you
dialog: don't know how to talk, how to act -- you don't even look like you
dialog: belong here. And if you walked out on the street, you wouldn't get 100
dialog: yards without being arrested. Then there would be questions, and where
dialog: would we come up with the answers?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (sighs) Okay, Professor, I get where you're coming from. The way I
text: look, the way I'm dressed... (looking down at his silver Porsche
dialog: jacket) I'd stick out like a sore thumb.
dialog: Professor Brown nodded, looking relieved.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I'm glad we finally got that straightened out. I'll see you tonight.
text: He left the house, slamming the door behind him. Marty stared at the
text: door for a moment with his eyes narrowed, then he returned to the
dialog: kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. BROWN MANSION - LATER
text: Half an hour later, Marty was ready. He'd finished his breakfast and
text: then had a shower, changing into some of the Professor's clothes
text: instead of his own from 1982. He had slicked his hair back like he had
text: seen the men doing so in some of those magazines and was now ready to
dialog: explore the town. After all, Professor Brown had said the reason he
dialog: couldn't go out was because of the way he looked, more or less. And now
dialog: that he looked like a resident of 1952, Marty saw no problem in leaving
dialog: the house.
scene_heading: EXT. BROWN MANSION
text: He opened a window at the front of the house and climbed outside, then
text: ran off in the direction of town.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: Less then twenty minutes later, Marty was strolling down the sidewalk
text: with the other townspeople, trying to look nonchalant, like he had
dialog: always lived there. He thought he was doing a pretty good job of it,
text: too, since no one was looking at him twice.
text: A cop that had been walking on the other side of the street glanced at
text: Marty and stopped, pointing a finger at him. Hey, you! he shouted.
dialog: Where do you think you're going?
text: Marty's eyes widened and fought the urge to run. How did he know? he
text: wondered in horror. The cop walked right for him, then, just as Marty
text: was ready to accept defeat, he passed him and grabbed the arm of a
text: tramp several yards behind Marty. He relaxed, letting out a sigh of
text: relief, and continued to walk down the street. After a minute he
text: started to get excited again as he looked around at the shops and
text: businesses up and down the main street.
dialog: There was an appliance store that advertised Giant 8 Inch Televisions!
text: with A screen as big as life itself! Across from it was an old gas
text: station with the price advertised at 18.9 cents a gallon. A travel
dialog: agency had a poster on how to get from L.A. to New York in a mere 12
dialog: hours! in it's window.
text: There was a dance studio with a sign, Everybody's doing the Mambo! on
text: the outside. Through the window, Marty could see a class in session. A
text: clothing store with a display of the latest fashions was beside the
dialog: studio. They looked a lot more like the kind of stuff in old movies. A
text: Studebaker showroom had a sign that said it was, the most modern car
dialog: ever developed in the entire history of man. Marty chuckled, then
text: stopped when he saw the next store.
text: It was a music store. In the display window were posters showing
text: America's top recording artists. Marty frowned as he studied them.
dialog: Frank Sinatra, Guy Combardo, Dinah Shore, Perry Como.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Are they kidding?
dialog: He decided to go inside and find out.
scene_heading: INT. MUSIC STORE
dialog: On the counter was the current number one single, Papa Loves Mambo by
text: Perry Como. Marty made a face as he examined it. He suddenly noticed
text: the clerk was standing beside him.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Can I help you, sir?
text: Marty held up the single. He had to ask.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: This... is the number one single?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Yes, sir!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I don't get it. How come there's no rock 'n roll?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (frowning) I beg your pardon?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: This is 1952....?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Uh, yes, sir...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: And you never heard of rock 'n roll?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: No....
text: Marty grinned as he set the single back on the counter, suddenly having
dialog: a great idea.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, maybe it's time you did.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: He quickly left the store and headed for a pawnshop he had noticed on
text: the outskirts of town. There was a guitar in the window, for five
text: dollars. After studying it for a moment, Marty went inside and told the
text: Pawnbroker what he wanted. The man took the guitar down and brought it
text: to the cash register and Marty trailed after him.
text: That'll be five bucks, he said, setting the guitar on the counter.
text: Marty reached for his wallet and pulled out the same twenty dollar bill
text: he had tried using at the cafe the night before. The Pawnbroker started
text: to ring the purchase up, then took a closer look at the money.
speaker_heading: PAWNBROKER
dialog: Hey, what kinda funny money is this?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Huh?
text: The Pawnbroker held the money out and pointed to something.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It says '1977' on it. What do you take me for, an idiot?
text: He handed the bill back to Marty. Marty looked at it and only then
dialog: realized his mistake. He had used money that hadn't even been printed
dialog: yet!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh -- yeah.
text: His mind was racing for a explanation to give the guy that didn't sound
dialog: too illegal. It wouldn't do for him to get arrested as a counterfeiter.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I can't believe I did that. That's a joke. My friend had these printed
dialog: up -- see that's his name there... Blumenthal.
text: The Pawnbroker continued to watch him suspiciously. It didn't look like
text: he was buying it. Marty dug around in his wallet, but of course he
dialog: didn't have any thirty-year-old bills with him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Gee - I don't seem to have anything on me.
text: He put his wallet away and as he did so, the watch Professor Brown was
text: lending him caught his eye.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, how about this watch? (holding up his left wrist) It's a genuine
dialog: antique!
text: He slipped the watch off and handed it to the Pawnbroker. He carefully
dialog: examined it.
speaker_heading: PAWNBROKER
dialog: Antique? They just came out with this watch last month. But this one
text: looks like it's been through a war.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah, I've been doing a lotta travelling.
speaker_heading: PAWNBROKER
dialog: Okay kid. You got a deal. The watch for the guitar.
text: Inside the office of the Midwest Talent Agency, Marty was concentrating
dialog: hard on performing Blue Suede Shoes the way Elvis had -- or would.
text: Dancing around, singing, playing the instrument -- he was really into
text: it, hardly noticing the forty five-year-old agent that sat behind the
text: desk and smoking a cigar, his face expressionless as he listened to the
text: music. Covering the walls of the small office were black and white
dialog: pictures of some clients that the agency sponsored.
text: Marty finished the song and looked at the agent with a smile, waiting
dialog: for the praise that was sure to follow. Who couldn't love music like
dialog: that? The agent, however, must have been one of those people.
scene_heading: TALENT AGENT
text: Well kid, (setting his cigar down in an ash tray) it's interesting,
dialog: I'll say that. But it's not commercial.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Not commercial? Mister, don't you know what you're listening to? This
dialog: is rock 'n roll!
text: The agent shook his head as he heaved his body out of the chair.
scene_heading: TALENT AGENT
dialog: Call it what you want to kid, but don't call it music, 'cause it sure
dialog: ain't that!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But you don't understand --
scene_heading: TALENT AGENT
dialog: No buts, kid. I've been in this business my whole life and I know what
dialog: people want. The smooth sound, that's what sells. Como, Crosby, Dinah
dialog: Shore. Gimme a melody and a nice slow tempo. Now beat it!
text: He opened the door and shoved Marty into the waiting room. Marty stood
text: where he was, trying to figure out what had happened. A few seconds
text: later the agent tossed his guitar case out of the room and slammed the
text: door. He hardly noticed the black man in a silk shirt approaching him.
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: That sound I just heard coming through the door, that was like nothing
dialog: I ever heard before! I mean, you got something there, young man!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: At least one person had recognized rock'n roll for what it was! Who are
dialog: you?
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: Reginald Washington is my name. I manage some of the local bands around
dialog: town and I think you've got something we can promote all the way to the
dialog: top! Now, I've got a real important cat comin' in from a New York
dialog: record company on Monday the 18th, and I want you to play that music
dialog: for him. I think the time has come for a sound like that.
text: Marty grinned at his words. Reginald took a business card from his
text: pocket and jotted down the date, time, and place on it with a pencil.
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: That's March 18th, Noon. Be at my office. What's your name?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Marty Mc - Marty Lewis.
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: Marty Lewis. See you on the 18th.
text: He handed him the card and shook his hand. Marty looked at the card,
text: not believing his luck.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: This is great! Right on, brother!
text: Reginald gave him a strange look.
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: I think you're a little mixed up. There is absolutely no way that I
dialog: could be your brother.
text: He turned and walked away. Marty glanced at the card again and smiled.
scene_heading: INT. BROWN MANSION
text: That evening, Marty stood before the mirror in the bedroom Professor
text: Brown was letting him use. He had changed back into his 1982 clothes
text: and was practicing the guitar, making sure he looked good. He had been
text: doing it for close to fifteen minutes when he heard the front door open
text: and slam shut.
text: Stopping in mid-note, Marty hastily placed the guitar in a corner of
text: the room. He ran his fingers through his hair, mussing it up and adding
text: to the illusion that he had spent the whole day lying around the house.
text: On his way out the door, he grabbed the business card off the bed that
text: Reginald had given him earlier that day and stuffed it in his Porsche
text: jacket, draped over a chair.
text: Marty ran down the stairs and saw Professor Brown pouring himself a
text: drink. He looked up as Marty came in the room, a scowl on his face. For
text: a split second, Marty worried that he might have found out about his
dialog: trip into town.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Well, I found an energy source that can generate the 4200 rads that we
dialog: need....
text: Marty looked at him expectantly, waiting for the answer.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: An atomic bomb.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor, be serious, would you?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I am serious. If we could get you, the time machine, and the power
dialog: converter in the vicinity of an atomic blast, we could send you back to
dialog: the future.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You're talking crazy! An atomic blast would melt me and the time
dialog: machine in a matter of seconds!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: You forget -- time travel is instantaneous. The time machine would
dialog: melt, but you would have already travelled through time. Of course,
text: it's a moot point regardless. The only place atomic bombs are detonated
text: is at the Army's Nevada Test Site, and those tests are kept absolutely
dialog: top secret.
text: Marty suddenly recalled sitting in class on the day he had left, the
text: lecture Mr. Arky had given him. He remembered ripping a particular page
text: out of the textbook for Suzy, and pocketing it in his jacket. He
text: whirled around and pounded up the stairs to his room.
text: Marty grabbed the jacket and checked the first pocket. Yeah, there was
text: the textbook page. He quickly unfolded it, the business card from
text: Reginald falling out as he did so. Marty's eyes flew to the caption of
dialog: the picture: Last above ground atomic test, 15 megatons, March 18,
dialog: 1952, Atkins, Nevada.
text: The date seemed familiar.... Marty picked the business card off the
text: floor and checked the date on it beside the page. They were the same.
text: Marty looked between the two objects in his hands for a long moment,
dialog: trying to figure out what to do. Maybe get home -- or get nuked -- or
dialog: stay in the fifties and maybe become famous -- and alive at least. He
text: crumpled up the page and tossed it in the garbage just before Professor
dialog: Brown entered the room.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Marty, what's wrong?
text: He slipped the card back in the jacket and shrugged, trying to seem
text: nonchalant.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh -- nothin'. I thought I left the water running.
text: The Professor's eyes zeroed in on the guitar in the corner of the room.
text: He stepped over for a closer look before Marty could stop him.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Say, where did this guitar come from?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh -- that -- I found it in the closet.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I don't recall ever seeing it before.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, it was there.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Curious... Very curious....
scene_heading: INT. BROWN MANSION - MORNING
text: Late the next morning, Marty stirred and opened his eyes. It was
text: another bright, sunny day outside. He smiled slowly, thinking of his
text: audition a few days away, and crawled out of bed. The house was quiet,
text: with the Professor at work.
text: Marty went downstairs and into the kitchen. Professor Brown had left
text: the coffee pot on and he cheerfully poured himself a cup, then opened
text: the refrigerator and pulled out the new bottle of milk. He got the
text: stopper out in a matter of seconds, without breaking it, too. As Marty
text: added the milk to the black coffee, he started to sing.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: So you wanna be a rock 'n roll star...
text: The doorbell rang before he could get any further with the song. Marty
text: rolled his eyes and set the milk down. He was going to have to go
text: through this again? Marty left the kitchen and headed for the front
text: door. He shook his head as he reached for the knob.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Look, Professor! I'm not -- oh!
text: The words died in his throat. Marty stared at Eileen, standing on the
text: doorstep, hugging books to her chest. She smiled at him and Marty
text: smiled back, weakly.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Hi, Marty.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, hi....
text: Eileen, his mother jumped in. Marty gave another weak smile. It was
dialog: hard for him to say her name.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Right. Eileen.
text: The smile faded from Eileen's face.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: You remember me...?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (mumbles) How could I forget? (to Eileen) Oh, sure, I remember you.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Well, I was on my way to school, and I just wanted to stop by and see
dialog: if you were feeling okay. You seemed like you were in pretty bad shape
dialog: the other night.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, I'm feeling much better now.
text: The smile returned to Eileen's face.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: How long are you planning on staying?
dialog: Marty shrugged.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Actually, it looks like I'm gonna be stuck here for awhile.
text: Eileen's smile grew wider.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Then you'll be going to school here....?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: School? I never thought of school! If I went to school I could blend in
dialog: with everybody else, couldn't I?
text: Eileen blinked, puzzled.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What time does school start around here?
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Nine o' clock. (glancing at her watch) Oh, I'm late! Maybe I'll see you
dialog: later.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yeah. Maybe so.
text: Eileen flashed another smile at him, then turned and hurried down the
text: walk. Marty shut the door and headed for the upstairs.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL
text: Not much later, Marty walked up the steps of his future high school,
text: amazed at the change. The grafitti was gone from the building, as were
text: the broken windows and overall run-down worn-in look the place had held
dialog: before -- or would later. All the tall trees on campus were much
text: smaller, maybe half the size they were in 1982. The bell rang as he
text: reached the door, a notebook in hand, and students streamed into the
text: hallways.
text: Marty stared openly at his classmates. They all looked like people from
dialog: an old movie, with the hair and clothes, the way they acted.... He
text: walked through the hall and passed an open door. The classroom looked
text: familiar and he stopped, looking inside.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH SCHOOL
text: After a moment of hesitation, Marty walked inside. Yeah, he had been
dialog: in it before! But everything looked a lot different -- newer. And the
text: chalkboards were black, not green. He went over to the desk that would
text: be his in thirty years and ran a hand across the smooth, shiny surface,
text: devoid of any marks or carvings.
dialog: You there! he heard someone yell. Someone familiar....
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: What are you doing in this class?
text: Marty lifted his head up and found himself looking at Mr. Arky --
text: thirty years younger! His mouth dropped open and his eyes widened as he
text: stared at the science teacher. He looked so different, age aside. Their
text: was an energetic spark in his eyes that hadn't been there when Marty
dialog: would have him for a teacher.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mr. Arky?
text: Marty asked, blinking a few times to make sure he wasn't seeing things.
dialog: He wasn't.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Yes, that's my name. Who are you, young man? Are you supposed to be
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh -- yeah. I'm new here, and I'm supposed to be in this class.
dialog: Mr. Arky nodded.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: You have a name?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Marty. Marty Lewis.
text: Marty watched the girl in the seat next to him, his eyes focused on the
text: old fountain pen she was filling with ink. He couldn't believe it.
dialog: Where were the pens he was used to?
text: In the background, Mr. Arky continued with the day's lecture. Marty
text: listened to him with half an ear, not paying much attention.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: ...and it is, of course, due to science that we Americans enjoy the
dialog: highest standard of living in the history of the world. When we think
dialog: of the technological advances made in just the past thirty years, it
text: boggles the mind to imagine what the world will be like in another
dialog: thirty years. I think I can safely say that we can all look forward to
dialog: a world of plenty, a world free of disease and starvation. There'll be
dialog: entire cities built under the sea, cars that can go two or three
dialog: hundred miles an hour.
text: Marty stared at Mr. Arky in disbelief. Could he be serious? Marty
text: glanced around and noticed the rest of the class looked bored, as if
dialog: they had heard the lecture before.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: You girls will be able to cook an entire meal, clean the entire house,
dialog: and do all of your laundry and ironing by push button, the science
dialog: teacher went on. You may even have a robot to assist you in all your
dialog: duties as a wife.
speaker_heading: STUDENT
dialog: I hope those robots won't be assisting in all my wife's duties!
text: The class laughed, but Marty was distracted by something. Where had he
dialog: heard that voice before? It sounded vaguely familiar, but he couldn't
dialog: quite put his finger on it....
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Well, Biff, since you seem so eager to get into this discussion,
dialog: perhaps you'd like to tell us what you think you'll be doing in thirty
dialog: years?
text: Marty turned around and saw Biff Tannen -- thirty years younger, of
text: course -- slouched in the back desk with a bored expression on his
text: face. Surrounding him were three other guys who were obviously friends
text: of his. One was missing two front teeth, one chewed on a wooden match,
text: and the other had a crewcut that made him look nearly bald. Marty
text: stared at Biff, who appeared just as obnoxious as he was later in life.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: I know what I won't be doin', he said with a smirk on his face. Goin'
dialog: to school!
text: His three cronies broke out laughing.
speaker_heading: GUMS
dialog: Hey, Biff, good one!
speaker_heading: SKINHEAD
dialog: Ataway, Biff!
text: Biff suddenly noticed Marty's stare. He scowled at him.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: What are you lookin' at, asshole?
text: Marty met Biff's glare, then turned away. Mr. Arky continued with his
text: class, the confrontation unnoticed.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Anybody else have any ideas about what life might be like in thirty
dialog: years?
text: The teacher's eyes roamed the class for volunteers. No one volunteered,
text: as usual. At least this hasn't changed , Marty thought with a chuckle.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Mr. Cusimano? Miss Voyles? Miss Kaner? So am I to understand that no
dialog: one has anything at all to say about the future? (shifting his gaze to
dialog: Marty) How about you, Mr. McFly?
text: Marty felt his face drain of color. He had been caught!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (muttering) Oh shit...!
text: A few kids turned their heads to stare at him, shocked at his words,
dialog: including Biff. Marty hardly had a chance to notice that when the
text: student in front of him started to speak.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, I, uh....well....
text: Marty glanced at him, and did a double take. That person stuttering was
dialog: none other then a younger version of George McFly -- his father! Marty
dialog: couldn't believe it! First his mother, now this! George was a mess,
text: shoulders slumped, hair uncombed, and an overall nerdy, wimpy look
dialog: about him
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jesus Christ! Dad!
text: The entire class now stared at Marty. Mr. Arky ignored it as best he
dialog: could.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Continue, Mr. McFly.
text: Marty's father stood up slowly, as if he were getting called to his
text: execution. Marty sighed and buried his face in his hands, shaking his
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, I -- uh -- could you repeat the question?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Sit down, McFly, you stupid moron! I can't see!
text: A second later, a spitball hit George in the back of the head. His face
text: red, George sat down.
text: Marty whipped his head around, furious, and glared at Biff.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, lay off!
text: Biff glared back at him, his eyes narrowed in slits of hatred.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Did you say something, Mr. Lewis?
text: Marty didn't hear him, continuing to give Biff the worst look he could.
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Mr. Lewis, I'm talking to you!
text: Marty snapped out of it, remembering who he was supposed to be.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Who, me?
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: You're the only Mr. Lewis in this class. If you have something to say,
dialog: say it so the whole class can hear.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, yeah, I was thinking, if cars are gonna be going two or three
dialog: hundred miles an hour, they're gonna be using an awful lot of gas.
dialog: Like, what if we run out?
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Run out of gas?
text: The class started laughing. Marty looked around, baffled. Was what he
dialog: said that funny?
speaker_heading: MR. ARKY
dialog: Well, class, it seems we have a doomsayer in our midst. I must say, Mr.
dialog: Lewis, that's a mighty pessimistic attitude for a young man like
dialog: yourself. First of all, with all the studies we have indicating the
text: vast supplies of petroleum in the earth, plus the massive reserves that
dialog: have yet to be discovered, the likelihood of any such shortage is
dialog: highly remote. And even if the most improbable, catastrophic
dialog: circumstances were to occur and we did have a shortage of petroleum,
dialog: I'm sure that American technology and ingenuity would overcome the
dialog: problem in no time at all. All in all, I'd say your time would be
dialog: better spent worrying about the real problems that face our world,
text: instead of a shortage of gasoline.
text: At the back of the class, Biff and his group started to make farting
dialog: noises.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hey, we got plenty of gas back here!
text: The class erupted into laughter once again. Marty just shook his head.
text: Not much later, the bell rang, ending the science class. Everyone made
text: a mad dash for the door, including Marty. He'd had enough humiliation
dialog: for the day with Mr. Arky.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH SCHOOL - HALL
text: George waited until most of the other students had left before
text: gathering up his books and heading for the door. Marty separated
text: himself from the mob in the hall and stood outside the door, waiting
text: for him. A minute later, George finally walked into the corridor. Marty
text: waited a moment, then followed him, keeping his distance.
text: When they reached a hall intersection, Marty noticed Eileen headed for
text: the two of them, her friend Madge with her. She didn't seem to see
text: Marty, but her eyes locked on George and she smiled at him.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Hi, George.
text: Marty watched as George looked over at her and became so flustered that
text: he walked straight into another student in the hall. Eileen and her
text: friend giggled and walked away. George's eyes followed her until she
text: was out of sight, then he walked over to a drinking fountain.
text: As he leaned over and turned the fountain on, he misjudged the distance
text: and the stream of water hit him right in the face. Marty shook his head
text: from a few feet away, as George wiped the water from his eyes. From the
text: fountain, George headed over to his locker. Marty watched him dial the
text: combination and, as he opened the locker door, a pile of books fell
text: out, nearly knocking him over. Marty looked away, sighing.
text: After George picked up his books, he started moving in the direction of
text: the cafeteria. As Marty got in the lunch line behind him, he noticed a
text: large poster tacked on the wall. Something about the Springtime in
text: Paris Dance on Saturday, March 16th. Not too far off.
scene_heading: INT. CAFETERIA
text: Marty turned his attention to his father, watching the bored cafeteria
text: ladies shovel out a overcooked pork chop, wilted salad, and green
text: stewed tomatoes. Looks like the food isn't much better now then in
text: 1982, Marty thought, amused. George didn't seem to notice. Leaning
text: forward a little, Marty could hear him muttering to himself.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Eileen, if you're free Saturday night... No... Eileen, would you like
dialog: to go to the dance... no...
text: Something suddenly clicked and Marty looked at the poster again. Yeah,
dialog: now he remembered! That was the dance his parents fell in love at!
text: The lunch line moved slowly, but eventually both he and George got
text: through it. George looked around the crowded lunch room, searching for
text: someone. Marty tried to follow where his eyes were roaming and after a
text: moment, he realized George was staring at the table where Eileen,
text: Madge, and a few other friends of theirs were sitting. George took a
text: deep breath, then started walking over to the table. Marty followed,
text: not too far behind.
text: As George approached the table, his hands started shaking, causing
text: everything on his lunch tray to wobble around.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Uh, Eileen?
text: Eileen turned around and gave him a warm smile.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Hi, George.
text: Marty watched his future father, a bundle of nerves.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Eileen, could I ask you something?
text: The creamed corn on his tray suddenly tipped over and spilled.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Ooops --!
text: Eileen smiled again, obviously not put off by it. George took another
text: deep breath.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Uh, well, the thing is, that is, what I wanted to ask you....
text: Marty decided this was too important to miss and crept closer so he
text: could hear better. Unfortunately, Eileen spotted him.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Marty! (waving to him) Hi, Marty! Over here!
text: George spun around before Marty had a chance to do anything. The sudden
text: movement causing George's entire tray to slip from his hands and spill
text: all over his shirt.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh God! Excuse me, please!
text: He started to run off, but Marty grabbed his arm.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Wait a minute -- aren't you gonna ask her to the dance? That was what
dialog: was supposed to have happened, wasn't it?
dialog: George stared at him.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Huh? How did you know?
text: Marty pushed him towards Eileen.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Go ahead, George. Ask her.
text: George shoved his arms away.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Leave me alone!
text: The gesture shocked Marty, but he shook his head.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You've gotta ask her to the dance!
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Not now....
text: George muttered, looking around the cafeteria. People were beginning to
text: stare. Eileen had been watching the whole ordeal with interest. Now she
dialog: spoke up.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Is that what you were going to ask me, George? To go to the dance?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No!
text: George shouted, running away, out of the cafeteria.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: George! Wait! Get back here! You're not supposed to run off! It doesn't
dialog: happen that way!
text: George didn't look back. Marty threw his hands up in the air
text: helplessly.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, God, this is all wrong!
text: Eileen stared at him with concern.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: What's all wrong?
text: Marty ran a hand through his hair, agitated.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: George! He's supposed to ask you to the dance!
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: But he didn't ask me.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But he does! Don't you see?
text: By the blank expression on Eileen's face, it was obvious that she
dialog: didn't. Marty quickly explained:
speaker_heading: MARTY
text: He comes out of the cafeteria line, he's nervous, he spills his corn,
dialog: and he asks you to the dance!
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Marty, you haven't been listening. Nobody's asked me to the
dialog: dance...yet.
text: She gives him a flirtatious smile before picking up her empty lunch
text: tray and walking away. Oh, no she couldn't be.... Marty sat down in a
text: chair, quick, as his legs threatened to give out on him. Eileen, his
dialog: mother, she -- she....
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I know.
scene_heading: INT. BROWN MANSION
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: You did what?!?
text: Professor Brown yelled as Marty finished telling him what had gone on
text: that morning. It was later in the afternoon, they were in his study.
text: Marty had gone to the Professor right away, since he had no idea what
dialog: to do and needed some advice. His friend was taking the news better
dialog: then Marty had expected.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I didn't mean to do it -- it was an accident!
dialog: Professor Brown shook his head.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Do you realize what that means? Do you have any idea what that means?
dialog: Marty shrugged.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Look, it's not a big deal! I can fix it! All I gotta do is get 'em
dialog: together and make sure my old man asks her out!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: You better make sure your old man asks her out, because if he doesn't,
dialog: they may never have a first date. And if they don't have a first date,
dialog: they won't have a second date. If they don't have a second date, they
dialog: won't fall in love. If they don't fall in love, they won't get married,
dialog: and if they don't get married, you'll never be born!
dialog: Marty swallowed hard.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, maybe everything is a little worse then I first thought, he
dialog: realized.
scene_heading: EXT. MALT SHOP
text: The next day, Marty brought George to the malt shop. It was after
dialog: classes and all the high school students were in there, including
dialog: Eileen.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I don't know if I can go through with this!
text: George moaned as they drew closer to the building. Marty dodged two
text: kids on homemade scooters as they sped by them on the sidewalk. His
text: eyes followed them for a moment, the vehicles reminding him of
text: skateboards.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: George, she's beautiful, right? She's nice, she's decent, she's the
dialog: kind of girl you'd like to marry, right? And there's nothing in the
dialog: world you'd like more than to take her to that dance, right?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well... yeah...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Okay, then!
text: Suddenly, George stopped, turned and faced him, his eyes narrowed
dialog: suspiciously.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Wait a minute -- who are you, anyway? What are you doing this for?
dialog: Marty hesitated.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Let's just say I have a vested interest in you and Eileen going to this
text: dance, all right? Look, (pointing though the window of the malt shop)
dialog: There she is...
text: Eileen was sitting at a table with Madge and some other girl, each
text: having ice cream sodas and talking.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Go in there and invite her.
text: Marty nudging George in the direction of the doors, but George stayed
dialog: put.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What do I say?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Say what you were supposed to say in the cafeteria.
dialog: George shook his head quickly.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh, no! That was for the cafeteria! This is different!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Christ, it's a miracle I was even born! (mutters under his breath,
dialog: rolling his eyes)
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Nothing. Look, I'll write it down for you, okay?
text: Marty took the notebook George had in his hands and ripped a page out.
text: He pulled his pen out and started jotting down some helpful lines.
text: George stared at the pen as he wrote.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What is that? A pencil that writes in ink?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It was Marty's turn to be confused. Huh?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Lemme see that.
text: George plucked the pen from his hand and looked it at it carefully.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: 'Bike fine point?'
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Bic... It's a Bic pen.
dialog: George frowned. How do you fill it with ink?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Fill it with ink? You don't fill it -- oh come on, George!
scene_heading: INT. MALT SHOP
text: He pushed him into the malt shop, tired of the procrastination. As soon
text: as they entered, Marty steered him in the direction of Eileen's table
text: and handed him the paper he had written on.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: There she is, he said in a low voice. Just go and ask her. I'll be
dialog: sitting right here.
text: Marty takes an empty seat at the counter. George looked at him, and
text: then over at Eileen. He took a deep breath and stepped forward, then
text: suddenly veered back to the counter.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Gimme a strawberry malted
text: Marty shook his head, wondering if he would ever get to Eileen. While
text: he waited for the drink, George examined the paper Marty gave him and
text: mouthed the dialog to himself, apparently trying to memorize it. A
text: moment later, the malt came and he took a swig of it, the drink leaving
text: an unnoticed pink moustache on his face. He turned around and started
text: to approach Eileen. Finally, Marty thought. George was still several
text: feet away when Eileen looked up and spotted him.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Hi, George!
text: He took a step back, startled.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Uh, hi, Eileen.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: How are you?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh -- I'm all right. Say, listen, about this dance Saturday night --
text: The door to the malt shop was suddenly thrown open.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Hey, McFly, I thought I told you never to come in here!
text: Biff Tannen stood in the doorway with his gang behind him. George took
text: one look at him and shuddered. Marty let his head fall in his hands
dialog: with a sigh. They had been so goddamn close!
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Well, it's gonna cost you, McFly. How much money you got on you?
text: George pulled out his wallet and opened it.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: How much do you want, Biff?
text: Biff crossed the room, on his way to George. As he passed, Marty
text: stretched his leg out and tripped the bully. Biff crashed to the floor,
text: taking a chair down with him. People started to laugh, but Biff
text: scowled. He didn't think it was too funny. He got to his feet and
text: stepped over to where Marty sat, his back to him.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Listen, asshole, he growled, it's about time I taught you a lesson.
text: Biff put a hand on his arm and at his touch, Marty spun around on the
text: stool and threw his fist into Biff's face! Unprepared, Biff fell back
text: onto a table. Marty jumped off the stool. The cafe was deathly silent
text: and Biff's three henchmen started to approach him. Marty decided it was
text: time for him to leave the building and he pushed his way out of the
text: crowded teen hangout and onto Main Street.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: Marty ran down the street, hearing the pounding footsteps of Biff and
text: his gang behind him. He cast a quick look over his shoulder and saw
text: them closing the gap that separated them. He was going to be dead meat!
text: One of the kids on the homemade scooters sailed by, and Marty suddenly
text: had an idea. He grabbed the scooter and pulled it away from the kid,
text: kicking the orange crate off the board with the skates on it and
dialog: leaving a crude skateboard!
text: Marty jumped on it and sped down the street. Biff and his gang stopped
text: in their tracks and stared at him, amazed. Likewise with the crowd that
text: had moved out of the malt shop.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: In the car!
text: They raced to the black convertible, Biff getting behind the wheel. He
text: gunned the engine, heading straight for Marty. Marty glanced over his
text: shoulder and saw the convertible quickly gaining on him. He cut a sharp
text: turn in the middle of the street and crossed before Biff's car, then
text: started to retrace his steps back to the malt shop. A car passed him,
text: and Marty grabbed onto the back of it, ignoring the stunned looks of
text: everyone around, including Biff and his gang.
text: Biff executed a quick U-turn and continued his pursuit of Marty. As he
text: passed the malt shop, the spectators cheered.
speaker_heading: MADGE
dialog: Did you see that?
text: Eileen nodded, her mouth open, impressed.
text: Biff's convertible raced past the cafe, hot on the trail of Marty.
text: Marty risked another look back. His eyes widened in panic as he saw
text: Biff's convertible closing in on the distance, quick. Was there no end
text: to his maniacal determination? Marty turned his attention back to the
text: front. He saw Hill Street intersecting up ahead. Instinctively, he
text: released his hold on the car and leaned into the board, turning it onto
text: the street. Biff once again overshot the street and had to do another
dialog: U-turn to get on it.
dialog: Hill Street was not named by accident -- it was incredibly steep. At
text: the bottom of the hill was an intersection with traffic lights. Marty
text: felt the board pick up speed. Behind him, Biff was putting the pedal to
text: the metal, the tires actually leaving the ground as he leapt onto Hill
text: Street! Once again, he quickly closed in on the distance between the
text: convertible and the skateboard. Marty crouched down, cutting the wind
text: resistance down, and the skateboard picked up speed. He was approaching
text: the intersection, fast! The light turned yellow.
text: Closing his eyes and mouthing a silent prayer, Marty flew through the
text: traffic, cars skidding to a stop and swerving to avoid hitting him.
text: Miraculously, he made it to the other side unscathed.
text: Such could not be said for Biff. His breaks locked up as he tried to
text: avoid a red car ahead, and the convertible's tires skidded across the
text: road. Marty winced in anticipation as Biff headed straight for a red
text: car. At the last minute, the car pulled away and Biff slammed into a
text: cop car in the next lane of traffic! Two big cops immediately got out
text: and headed straight for Biff, not looking too happy.
text: Biff let out an angry sigh.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: I'm gonna get that son of a bitch!
text: Marty left the site, a satisfied smile on his face. Biff had gotten
text: what he deserved. He turned onto a residential street, his mind
text: wandering as he leisurely skateboarded. About ten minutes later, he
text: reached an intersection next to his future home, and saw Eileen
text: approaching the house...with George! Marty skidded to a stop, grabbed
text: the board, and ducked behind some bushes to watch.
text: George, carrying Eileen's books, was walking her to the door. They were
text: talking, but Marty couldn't catch any of the conversation. After a
dialog: moment, George gave Eileen her books and they shook hands very formal-
dialog: like.
text: He must've finally asked her to the dance! Marty sighed, glad to have
text: that mission finally accomplished and dropped his board on the ground,
text: skateboarding away from Eileen's house to the Professor's place to tell
text: him the news. He never saw George, after Eileen had closed the door,
text: throw his jacket down in the street and slump down in the gutter,
text: dropping his head in his hands, dejected instead of exuberant.
scene_heading: INT. BROWN MANSION
text: That evening, Marty lay on his bed, staring at the ceiling in deep
text: thought. Eventually, he reached into his jacket pocket and pulled out
text: the business card from Reginald. Marty looked at it for a long
text: time...then shredded it into tiny scraps. He pushed himself off the bed
text: and let the papers fall into the trash can. Then he pulled out the
text: crumpled textbook page and went downstairs with it, heading for the
dialog: study.
text: Professor Brown was seated at the desk, his back to the door, hunched
text: over something. As Marty entered, he made a quick movement, as if he
text: was trying to hide the fact he had been listening to the micro-cassette
text: recorder again, the gunshot portion. Marty didn't notice, too caught up
dialog: in his own problems.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor, you were right about everything. I don't belong here. I
dialog: almost screwed up my existence again today while I was trying to put it
dialog: back together, and I've had enough. I want to go back to the future.
text: Marty handed him the textbook page, pointing at the caption under the
text: photograph. The frown on the Professor's face changed to a smile and
text: his eyes lit up.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Where did you get this?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I brought it with me from 1982. It's from my science book.
text: Professor Brown looked at it more closely.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: The test is this Monday! 15 megatons... Let's see, we need 4200 rads...
dialog: (doing calculations on a slide rule, lying on the desk) You'd have to
dialog: be...exactly 800 yards from ground zero... You realize that what we're
dialog: going to do could be extremely dangerous.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Believe me, Professor, running around on a nuclear test site can't be
dialog: any more dangerous than what I've been doing.
text: The Professor stared at him a moment, then nodded.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: All right, here's what we'll do: we'll get an Army Surplus Truck, mount
dialog: the time machine and power converter on it, and drive it to Nevada. If
dialog: we leave by Saturday night, we can make it to the test site in plenty
dialog: of time. And just to be on the safe side, I'd better build a lead-lined
dialog: time chamber for your added protection. I don't know if I trust these
dialog: atomic bombs.
text: The telephone rang before Professor Brown could say anything else. He
text: reached over and picked it up.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Hello? Uh, no, Eileen, he can't come to the phone right now.
text: Marty stared at him, his heart starting to pound with alarm.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: All right. Yes, I'll tell him... Good-bye.
text: He hung up and turned to Marty with a grave expression. Marty had a
text: sinking feeling that he was not going to like what he had to say. He
dialog: was right.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Your 'mother' wanted me to tell you that she was very impressed by what
dialog: you did this afternoon, and that if you were interested in going to the
dialog: dance Saturday, she's available.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But that's impossible!! George asked her out! He had to! I saw him walk
dialog: her home! Oh, God!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: My guess is that she turned him down.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But why? Why would she do that? She's supposed to marry the guy!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Apparently, what has happened is that the maternal instinct has
dialog: transcended the gap of time and this has caused an alteration in your
dialog: mother's emotional behavior.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (swallowing hard) Are you trying to tell me that my mother's got the
dialog: hots for me?
text: The Professor thought about that for a moment.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: In a manner of speaking, yes. And because of that, she's no longer
dialog: interested in your father.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jesus!
text: Marty sat down in a nearby chair.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What are we gonna do?
scene_heading: INT. MALT SHOP
text: Marty stepped into the malt shop the next day, his eyes on Eileen and
text: Madge, both sitting at the same table as they were the day before, once
text: again talking and drinking ice cream sodas. He crossed the room and sat
text: down with them, to Eileen's delight.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: How ya doing, Eileen?
text: Eileen smiled. She and her friend exchanged a glance.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Hi, Marty!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Listen, (hands under the table) Professor Brown told me you called last
dialog: night and gave me your message...
text: He carefully taped the micro-cassette recorder to the bottom of the
text: table and pressed the record button. Neither girl seemed to notice
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: ...and if you're still available, I'd like to take you to the dance
dialog: Saturday night, so I'll pick you up around 8:30, okay?
text: Eileen smiled and nodded as Marty stood up to leave.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Okay. See you later, Marty.
text: Marty gave her a cheerful wave as he left the malt shop. He pretended
text: to walk away, then ducked behind a nearby building. A few minutes
text: later, Eileen and Madge came out. He waited until they were out of
text: sight before running in the shop and prying the recorder loose.
text: Later that night, in the Professor's garage, Marty played it back for
text: the both of them. Professor Brown had been welding sheet lead metal
text: into a large Philco Refrigerator. The time machine was now resting in
text: the bed of an Army truck. The Professor had also modified the top of
dialog: the refrigerator to hold the beam focusing unit so the time beam would
text: shine directly into the fridge.
speaker_heading: MARTY (on tape)
dialog: ...so I'll pick you up around 8:30, okay?
speaker_heading: EILEEN (on tape)
dialog: Okay. See you later, Marty.
text: He heard the sounds of him walking away and leaving the shop. Almost as
text: soon as the door shut behind him, the girls started talking about him.
speaker_heading: EILEEN (on tape)
text: Isn't he a dream? (letting out a giddy sigh)
speaker_heading: MADGE (on tape)
dialog: Boy, I've never seen you fall for anybody like that before!
dialog: Eileen sighed again.
speaker_heading: EILEEN (on tape)
dialog: I know. I've never felt like this about anybody before. I really don't
dialog: understand it, but I just feel like -- like mothering him.
text: Marty and the Professor exchanged a look.
speaker_heading: MADGE (on tape)
dialog: But what about George? I thought you wanted him to ask you.
speaker_heading: EILEEN (on tape)
dialog: He did ask me....but I turned him down.
speaker_heading: MADGE (on tape)
dialog: Why? (surprised) You always thought George was cute because he was so
dialog: shy.
speaker_heading: EILEEN (on tape)
dialog: Well, that's what I thought. But he really isn't shy. He's just
dialog: chicken.
text: The Professor suddenly grabbed the recorder from Marty's hands and
text: rewound the last sentence.
speaker_heading: EILEEN (on tape)
dialog: He's just chicken.
dialog: Eileen said again.
scene_heading: EXT. GEORGE McFLY'S BACKYARD - SATURDAY MORNING
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Come on, George,
text: Marty said facing off with him in his backyard.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Don't be such a chicken. Hit me in the stomach. Right here, go ahead.
text: He held his arms away from his body, making himself an easy target.
text: Behind him, a duffel bag packed with clothes swung from a tree, as a
text: homemade body bag. George didn't make a move.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I don't want to hit you in the stomach!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You're not gonna hurt me. Just hit me in the stomach.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Look, Marty, I'm just not a fighter...
dialog: Marty rolled his eyes.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: How many times do I have to explain it to you?... We know you're not a
dialog: fighter. You know it, I know it... but she doesn't know it. That's why
dialog: we gotta make you look like a fighter, somebody who'll stand up for
dialog: her, somebody who isn't chicken. And you're not gonna look like a
dialog: fighter if you can't hit me in the stomach.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: But I've never picked a fight in my entire life!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You're not picking a fight, you're coming to her rescue. Maybe we'd
dialog: better go over the plan again. Where are you gonna be at 8:55?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I'm going to be at the dance.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: And where am I gonna be?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
text: In the parking lot, with her.
text: Marty nodded, glad to see that he had been paying attention.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Okay. So right around 9:00 she's gonna get very angry with me -
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Why what?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why is she gonna get angry with you?
dialog: Marty hesitated.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well... because... Well, nice girls get angry at guys who...who try to
dialog: take advantage of 'em.
text: George looked at him in disbelief.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You mean, you're gonna --
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: George it's not your concern. Don't worry about it. Just remember that
dialog: at 9:00, you'll be strolling through the parking lot and you'll see us
dialog: -- struggling in the car, you'll run over, open the door and say....?
text: Marty waited for George, but he didn't say anything.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Your line, George!
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh. Uh... 'Hey, you! Get your damn hands off her!' George paused. You
dialog: really think I should swear?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Yes, definitely, god dammit George, swear. Then you hit me in the
dialog: stomach, I go down for the count, and you and Eileen life happily ever
dialog: after. Now, hit me in the stomach.
text: George took a deep breath and tentatively threw his fist into Marty's
text: stomach. Marty shook his head.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No, George, put a little emotion into it. A little hostility, a little
dialog: anger.
text: He tried it again, this time making faces. The second punch wasn't much
dialog: better then the one before it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Anger, George, Anger.
dialog: George hesitated.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Maybe if I used my left....
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: No, George, just concentrate on the anger. Anger.
dialog: The third punch George tried was a little bit better. But still not
text: what Marty was looking for. He sighed.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, I think you're starting to get the hang of it. Just keep
dialog: practicing. I'll see you tonight. Remember, anger, George. Anger.
text: He walked away, leaving George alone in the yard.
text: George stared at the body bag, trying to think of something that would
dialog: make him really angry.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Anger...anger.... he muttered.
text: He hit it, the punches coming harder and harder each time. George
text: smiled, finally getting the hang of it. He pulled his fist back, ready
text: to sock it to the bag. Unfortunately, he misjudged the distance and his
text: fist slammed into the tree trunk.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Yeeeowww! God dammit!
text: With his left fist, George attacked the bag with everything he had --
text: and knocked it completely off the tree! He stared at it for a long
text: time, shocked.
scene_heading: EXT. BROWN MANSION
text: It was the night of the dance. The time machine and refrigerator -- now
text: successfully lead-lined -- was completely assembled in the back of the
text: truck. Beside it sat the power converter and a motorcycle with sidecar.
text: As Professor Brown pulled a tap over the back, Marty placed his 1982
text: clothes in a laundry bag, with some bottles of Coke.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Everything's ready to go, securing the tarp carefully. (looking up)
dialog: What about the chemicals for the power converter... whatever they are?
text: Marty opened the door and stashed the laundry bag at the floor of the
dialog: passenger seat.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That's all taken care of.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Good. Professor Brown tested the tarp, noting in satisfaction that it
dialog: was secure. I'll pick you up in front of the school at midnight. Don't
dialog: be late -- we're cutting it close as it is. We've got a long drive
dialog: ahead of us.
text: Marty nodded. He twisted his tie around his fingers, almost
text: absentmindedly. He wasn't feeling too hot about the next few hours.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Look. I'm a little worried about this -- this whole thing with my
dialog: mother, he admitted to the Professor. I mean, I don't know if I can do
dialog: it -- I mean, hitting on my own mother, that's pretty heavy.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Nobody said anything about hitting her! You're just going to take a few
dialog: liberties with her.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That's exactly what I said! I mean, a guy and his mother -- that's
dialog: illegal, isn't it?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Look, Marty, she's not your mother yet. And if you don't go through
dialog: with this, she may never be. I know it's hard, but there are some
dialog: things we must do in life that are unpleasant. Some choices must be
dialog: made that are difficult. Nonetheless, we must make them. Besides, this
dialog: may be more than a simple question of your own existence, he added. The
dialog: fate of the entire space-time continuum may rest on your shoulders
dialog: .
text: Marty tried to smile at him.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: That's just what I needed to hear.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: It'll be fine, Marty. (patting him on the shoulder) You'll be fine.
text: Good luck. He stuck his hand out and Marty shook it. But there was
text: still a question that was nagging at him...
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor, if something does go wrong tonight... if I don't get my
dialog: parents back together... when do you think I'd cease to exist?
dialog: The Professor shrugged.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: There's no way of knowing.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Perfect...
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: It could happen at the moment you arrive back in the future,
dialog: theoretically, it could happen at the moment of your birth...or
dialog: conception. Actually, it could happen at any time. It's a question to
dialog: which I hope we'll never learn the answer.
dialog: Marty nodded vigorously.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Amen.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT
text: Not too much later, Marty pulled into the high school parking lot with
text: Eileen at his side in the Professor's Packard. He carefully parked the
text: car. It was hard for him to look at his mother, Eileen, in the dress
text: she was wearing. It was a light pink color, low cut, showing off her
text: cleavage. He stared at the clock in the dashboard instead.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh... let's just sit here for a few minutes... (voice cracking)
text: Eileen looked at him with motherly concern.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Are you all right, Marty? You seem a little...nervous.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Oh, no, I'm fine...fine.
text: He tried to smile at her. It came out pretty shaky. But Eileen smiled
text: back a moment later.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I'm usually nervous myself on first dates...but not tonight. It's
dialog: funny, but somehow, I feel like....like I know you.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh, yeah, well, believe me, I sure feel like I know you!
text: He wondered how George was doing, and wished he'd hurry up and get his
dialog: ass out here!
scene_heading: INT. HIGH SCHOOL DANCE
text: The dance was in full swing. The band, Lester Moon and the Midnighters,
text: were on stage, playing The Blue Tango. In the middle of the dance floor
text: was a big paper-mache Eiffel Tower, around which students were doing
text: the Tango. George looked up at the clock in the gym. 8:59. He quickly
text: looked at his watch. It read 8:55. Which one was right?
text: He ran over to a student nearby.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What time do you have?
speaker_heading: NEARBY STUDENT
text: (looking at his watch) Five after nine.
text: George let out a moan and ran as fast as he could from the gym!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAR - HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT
text: Marty shifted uncomfortably in the seat and glanced at the clock again.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Why are you so nervous?
text: Eileen asked with a frown, watching him carefully. Marty took a deep
text: breath, trying to steady himself. He had to get a grip!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, Eileen...jeez, that's hard for me to say. Have you ever been in a
dialog: situation where -- well -- you know you have to act a certain way, but
dialog: when you get there, you don't know if you can go through with it?
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: You mean like how you're supposed to act with someone on a first date?
text: Marty titled his head to the side.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, sort of....
dialog: Eileen nodded, interrupting him.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I think I know exactly what you mean.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You do?
dialog: Eileen nodded again, slower.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: And you know what I do in those situations?
text: Marty finally looked at her, waiting for the answer.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I don't worry about it!
text: The words had barely left her lips when she lunged at Marty, nearly
text: knocking him over, starting to kiss him passionately. Eileen climbed
text: all over him, her skirt everywhere. She reached out and took Marty's
text: hand, lying limp at his side, and placed it on the top of her bare
text: breasts. Marty couldn't move, paralysed in shock that this promiscuous
dialog: teenager was his mother!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HIGH SCHOOL - PAY PHONE
text: George stood at a pay phone, quickly dialing the number for the time.
text: The phone rang two long times before a woman answered.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (on phone)
dialog: At the tone, the time will be 9:00 exactly.
text: Before the tone could go off, George dropped the phone and raced down
dialog: the hall. He had to get to the parking lot!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAR - HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT
text: Eileen had been attacking Marty for about a minute -- a very long
text: minute in Marty's opinion -- before she suddenly stopped and pushed him
text: away. The buttons at the top of her dress were undone and her bra was
dialog: exposed.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: This isn't right.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HIGH SCHOOL
text: George reached the front of the school doors and threw them open.
text: Suddenly, he was jerked to a stop. He looked behind him and saw his
text: jacket had caught on the door jamb. He tried frantically to get it
text: loose, all the while aware of the seconds ticking by.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAR - HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I don't know what it is, but...when I kiss you...something's wrong. It
dialog: almost feels like...like I was kissing my brother...or my father.... I
dialog: don't understand it, but I just know it's wrong. (looking at Marty,
dialog: eyes wide) I guess that doesn't make any sense, does it?
text: Marty stared at her, finally finding his voice.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Believe me, it makes perfect sense.
text: Sudden footsteps crunched on gravel, approaching the car. Eileen
dialog: glanced outside.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
text: Sounds like somebody's coming.
text: The steps grew closer. Marty looked at the clock. Nine on the dot.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (murmurs) Not now, George! Not now....
text: The driver's door was suddenly thrown open. Marty had hardly turned
text: toward it when he was yanked out of the car roughly. Instead of George,
dialog: he saw someone he had not expected in the least. It was Biff!
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: I been lookin' for you, asshole, the bully growled in a low voice.
text: He shoved Marty over to Skinhead, standing nearby. Marty fought to get
dialog: free, but he was no match for Biff's gang. Three against one was never
dialog: good odds.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Let go of him!
text: Eileen demanded, watching the spectacle from inside the car.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Leave him alone!
text: A smile spread across Biff's face when he noticed Eileen.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Look at what we have here!
text: His eyes traveled across her body and he saw her bra half exposed.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Eileen -- I didn't know you were that kinda girl!
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I'm not!
text: Eileen started to climb out of the car.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Oh no, you don't!
text: Before she could get anywhere, Biff grabbed her and pushed her back
text: inside, then climbed in after her. He looked at his gang as he pulled a
text: struggling Eileen towards him.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Take him around back. I'll join you in a minute.
text: His gang made no move to leave.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Go on! This ain't no peepshow!
text: Marty tried to get free and help his mom -- do something -- but he was
text: helpless! As he was dragged away, he saw Biff slam the door and lunge
text: toward Eileen to kiss her. She fought and a moment later, all Marty saw
text: were her skirts and flailing arms and legs. Eileen was trying to
text: scream, but Biff -- in some way or another -- kept cutting her off.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - SIDE ENTRANCE
text: Marty was dragged around a corner, the car vanishing from his view. A
text: man stood at the side door, smoking something. Marty twisted his head
text: around and saw him about the same time the black man saw them. It was
dialog: Reginald Washington, the same guy who had liked his music.
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: Hey! What's going on there?
text: Marty tried to answer, but one of the bullies conveniently had their
text: hand over his mouth.
speaker_heading: GUMS
dialog: Beat it, black boy!
text: Reginald took a step forward.
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: Hey, now, you'd better --
speaker_heading: SKINHEAD
dialog: Listen, spook, you lookin' for trouble?
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: No, sir, I don't want no trouble.
text: Reginald backed away and went back into the school. Marty was left
text: alone, at the mercy of Biff's gang.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL
text: George finally managed to get his jacket free and ran down the front
text: steps across to the parking lot.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT
text: He hurried through the lot, his eyes skimming the rows of car for the
text: cream colored Packard. Finally, he zeroed in on it. His eyes widened as
text: he saw that Eileen and Marty were struggling inside, Eileen screaming.
text: George steadied himself, hiked up his pants, and rushed to the side of
text: the car. He opened the driver's side door.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Hey, you! he said forcefully. Get your damn hands -- uh oh!
text: It wasn't Marty inside with Eileen. When the guy inside turned around,
text: he saw with horror that it was Biff Tannen instead! An icy stab of fear
text: hit George in the chest.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: (deadly serious) I think you got the wrong car, McFly.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: (struggling to sit up) George! Help me!
text: George looked at her, feeling strangely detached from the situation. He
dialog: didn't know what to do! A part of him wanted to run as fast and far
text: away as possible, but at the same time he knew he couldn't leave Eileen
dialog: alone with Biff.
speaker_heading: BIFF
text: (same deadly serious voice) Just close the door, McFly, and walk away.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: George! Please! Help me!
text: George stood rooted to where he was, unable to make up his mind. His
text: eyes darted between Biff's mask of anger, and Eileen's tear streaked
dialog: face. What should he do?
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - SIDE ENTRANCE
dialog: 
text: Marty was shoved back against the school wall. His head slammed against
text: the concrete wall and he winced. Gums and Match kept a firm hold on
text: him, so he couldn't get away. Across from him, Skinhead pulled his fist
text: back, ready to slam Marty in the face. Marty closed his eyes, tensing
text: up, waiting for the blow.
text: But it never came. Instead he heard footsteps and cries of surprise
text: from Biff's gang. He opened his eyes and saw that Reginald had brought
text: some friends. It was the band that was playing at the dance.
speaker_heading: BAND MEMBER
dialog: Who you callin' 'spook', peckerwood?!
text: Skinhead tried to throw a punch at him -- but the guy got him instead!
text: Then the rest of the men went after Gums and Match - who saw them
text: approaching and tried to make a run for it, releasing Marty. Marty
text: darted away to the parking lot, not letting the chance to escape pass
dialog: by. He had to get back to Eileen!
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT
text: George stared at Biff, who stared back angrily.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: All right, McFly, I asked you politely to leave. Now I'm gonna have to
dialog: teach you a lesson!
text: Biff stepped out of the car and before George could move, he grabbed
text: his right arm and twisted it back. George let out a moan of pain. Biff
text: started laughing, as if it was some kind of great joke. The laugh
dialog: taunted George, made him angrier and angrier.
text: Without thinking about it, his left hand clenched into a fist and he
text: spun around. His fist connected solidly with Biff's face, and the smile
text: dropped from the bully's face a second before he dropped to the ground,
dialog: out cold!
text: George looked at his hand, stunned, as if he couldn't believe that it
text: had done such a thing. Marty reached the site just then, skidding to a
text: stop. Eileen climbed out of the car and gave George a hug. He hugged
text: her back tentatively. Marty ducked back into the shadows, not wanting
text: to be spotted by either one of them and ruin the moment. A few other
text: kids from the dance were migrating toward the site now.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Did you see that?
speaker_heading: GUY
dialog: Kid's got the greatest left hook since Jo Louis! Laid 'im out cold with
dialog: one punch!
speaker_heading: ONLOOKER
dialog: Somebody better call an ambulance.
text: Marty shook his head, amazed that they were talking about his father!
text: He watched George and Eileen walk slowly toward the school, arm in arm.
text: Right before they entered, Eileen turned around and caught sight of
text: Marty staring at them. She gave him a shy smile and he grinned at her
text: in return. Once they entered the building, he turned and ran back to
text: the side of the school, where he had left Biff's gang.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - SIDE ENTRANCE
text: The band members were running off Biff's gang. As Marty approached
text: them, one of them got one last kick at Skinhead in the ass before they
dialog: spilt.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey, thanks a lot, you guys,
text: The three hoods scatterred into the night.
speaker_heading: BAND MEMBER
dialog: It's okay.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, you guys go back in there and play the best version of 'Turn Back
text: the Hands of Time' that you can, glancing towards the door.
text: The band members shook their heads.
speaker_heading: BAND MEMBER 2
dialog: Sorry, my friend, we're through for tonight.
text: Marty looked at them, stunned.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: DRUMMER
text: Look at Lester's hand. He smashed it on top of old Skinhead. We can't
dialog: play without Lester.
text: Marty glanced at Lester, who was wrapping a handkerchief around his
text: bruised and bleeding hand.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But you guys have to play! The dance isn't over yet! You gotta play
dialog: 'Turn Back the Hands of Time'. My parents gotta -- George, Eileen gotta
dialog: dance the last dance and kiss!
speaker_heading: BAND MEMBER
dialog: Hey, man, the dance is over...unless you can find somebody who can
dialog: play the guitar.
text: Marty turned to look at Reginald.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH SCHOOL DANCE - STAGE
text: Marty stood on stage with the band, playing Turn Back the Hands of Time
text: with them. He could see his parents dancing cheek to cheek in the
text: middle of the dance floor. Marty watched them carefully as the song
text: ended, holding his breath. They leaned forward slowly,
text: hesitantly....then their lips met in a kiss! He smiled in relief, then
text: checked the time. A few minutes before midnight.
text: Marty stepped forward to the microphone set up.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, folks, that about wraps it up for this evening....
text: The students moaned in disappointment.
speaker_heading: STUDENTS
dialog: Aww, one more! Just one more!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You want one more, huh?
text: Marty looked at the clock again, then turned to the band. None of them
text: appeared to have any objections. He looked at the crowd, considering,
dialog: then finally decided to go for it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well, I probably shouldn't do this, but what the hell, you're gonna be
dialog: hearing a lot of this in the future anyway... (turning around) Follow
dialog: me, fellas, he told the band members.
text: Marty walked over to his amp and twisted the volume to the maximum
text: amount it would go. He placed his guitar against it and shattered the
text: expectant silence of the gym with a loud riff from the instrument. The
text: audience looked both shocked and horrified, and the band exchanged
text: looks of confusion. Marty started in on a Chuck Berry song, Johnny B.
text: Goode, expressions in the gym changing to astonishment. It took a
text: moment, but the band finally figured out what was going on and joined
dialog: in. Marty grinned as the first -- very first -- sound of rock 'n roll
dialog: was heard.
text: Kids started dancing, only a few at first, then more joined in. Marty
text: started moving on stage, like the rockers did at heavy metal concerts.
text: The crowd roared, total pandemonium breaking out on the dance floor. No
dialog: one had ever heard this kind of music before! The band got more and
text: more enthusiastic as the chaperones clasped their hands tightly to
text: their ears, horrified expressions on their faces.
text: Marty shifted the music to Rock Around the Clock, noting in
text: satisfaction that the entire gym was dancing to the music. He loosened
text: the tie around his neck, sweating from those hot stage lights, then
text: decided to just take his jacket off. He yanked it off his body and
text: tossed it into the crowd.
text: Meanwhile, out in the hall, an old teacher who had been chaperoning
text: the dance was on the phone.
speaker_heading: OLD TEACHER
text: That's right, officer, (over the music) there's a riot in the school
dialog: gym!
text: In the gym, on the stage, the man with the sax stepped forward and
text: improvised an impressive solo. Then it was Marty's turn. He reached up
text: and tore open his shirt, making all the girls shriek. Finally, with a
text: nervous look at the clock, he wrapped the music up with a final riff.
text: The walls of the gym shook with the applause. Marty took a bow and
text: smiled at the crowd. Behind him, the Midnighters were breathless with
dialog: all the excitement.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Good night, everybody!
text: Marty shouted into the mike. He stepped back, heading for the door, but
text: the band members crowded around him.
scene_heading: REGINALD WASHINGTON
dialog: Man, that stuff cooks! That's the hottest sound I ever heard! You gotta
dialog: play that Monday for that record company cat from New York!
text: Marty lost the smile on his face, suddenly serious.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I won't be there Monday.
text: The band members looked stunned. Marty continued to talk before they
dialog: could ask any questions.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: And don't you guys play it either, he cautioned. It's time hasn't come
dialog: yet. If you play it, you might screw things up. It'll happen on it's
dialog: own.
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Rock'n roll!
text: He turned and ran off stage, darting though the halls to the front of
text: the building. Outside, he could see Professor Brown's truck in front of
text: the school, engine idling, waiting to go.
text: Marty burst out of the school and jumped into the cab, slamming the
text: door behind him.
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK
text: He noticed that the Professor was in an Army uniform.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Everything's cool. (breathless) They danced, they kissed, they're in
dialog: love! Let's go!
text: Professor Brown put his foot on the gas and they tore out of the
text: parking lot.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - HOURS LATER
text: Several hours later, Marty was still talking about the evening's events
dialog: to the Professor.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I sure wish I could have seen the punch!
dialog: It was almost three in the morning.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I mean, he decked him -- laid him out cold -- one punch. It must have
dialog: been beautiful! I didn't know he had it in him!
text: Professor Brown took his eyes off the road a moment to look at Marty,
text: something about what he was saying making him uneasy.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: You didn't?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Nope. My father's never clenched a fist in his entire life!
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Curious... (sudden concern) Very curious.
text: Marty shook his head, unaware of the Professor's worries.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I just wish I could have seen it...
text: He let his voice trail off, staring out the dark window, at the highway
text: unwinding before them. Professor Brown turned his attention back to
text: driving. For the first time all evening, Marty lapsed into silence.
text: When the Professor next looked at him, ten minutes later, he was
text: slumped back in his seat, his forehead resting against the window, eyes
text: closed and snoring softly. Professor Brown didn't disturb him. Marty
dialog: had a long and busy night and deserved some rest. Especially
dialog: considering how much work had to be done in the next day.
text: The light of dawn had hardly begun to shine in the east when they
text: crossed the state line into Nevada. The Professor pulled into a gas
text: station and stopped the car. The tank was running low and they still
dialog: had a ways to go. Not to mention that, according to a sign next to the
dialog: station, there would be no more chances to fill up for 150 miles.
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION
text: Professor Brown turned to Marty and shook him awake, then handed him
text: his bag and told him to go change. As Marty headed for the bathroom,
text: the Professor got out of the truck and headed for the small building
text: where the grizzled gas attendant was waiting.
scene_heading: INT. GAS STATION - BATHROOM
text: Inside the bathroom, Marty quickly changed out of the suit he had worn
text: to the dance and into his 1982 clothes, pulling some Army fatigues and
text: a jacket over them. The Army clothes were a little loose, but it didn't
text: matter. Once he had the clothes on, Marty took the bottles of Coke he
text: had brought with him in his bag and stuffed them deep into the jacket's
text: pockets. He looked in the dusty mirror, checking his appearance to make
text: sure he looked okay and the Coke bottles weren't visible. They weren't.
text: Marty quickly gathered up his things and left the stuffy restroom,
text: joining up with the Professor just as the gas had finished.
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION
speaker_heading: GAS ATTENDANT
dialog: Twenty six gallons, checking the readouts. That'll be $3.75.
dialog: Marty almost choked. Since when was gas so cheap? Before he had much
text: time to reflect on that, Professor Brown paid the man and climbed into
text: the truck. Marty had no choice but to follow and they continued towards
dialog: the test site.
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - MILITARY INSTALATION
text: Hours later, Professor Brown was driving the truck down a dirt road. At
text: the end of it was a huge barbed wire fence, padlocked, with a huge
dialog: sign. U.S. Army. Restricted Area. Authorized Personal Only. Their goal.
dialog: The test site.
text: The Professor nudged a dozing Marty as they approached the gate and
text: pulled to a stop. He had previously told Marty to leave the talking to
dialog: him, and Marty had no problem with that. He certainly did not want to
dialog: get them arrested. Almost as soon as they had stopped, an M.P. stepped
text: up to the truck, a rifle in hand.
dialog: M.P.
dialog: Where do you jokers think you're going? he asked, peering into the cab.
text: The Professor picked up some papers -- their orders -- off the
text: dashboard and handed them to the guy.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: We're here to deliver that refrigerator.
text: He pointed to the back. The M.P. glanced at it and shook his head.
dialog: M.P.
dialog: Do you know where you are?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: This is where they're gonna drop the bomb, right? Well, Philco wants to
dialog: find out what it does to their refrigerator.
text: The M.P. strolled over to the back and used his gun to lift up a corner
text: of the tarp and look under it.
dialog: M.P.
dialog: What's with the motorcycle?
text: Marty watched the Professor carefully, wondering how he would answer
dialog: this one. As before, he had a logical answer.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: General Motors wants to find out what it does to their truck. The
dialog: motorcycle is because we don't want to find out what it does to us.
text: The man glanced at the papers.
dialog: M.P.
dialog: Well, you better shake a leg. That bomb goes off in fifty-five minutes!
text: Professor Brown and Marty glanced at each other, relieved, then drove
text: through the now-open gate. They had passed the first obstacle.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MILITARY BUNKER
text: Colonel Nordell peered through binoculars at the barren desert from the
text: artillery bunker. The bunker had a full communicational base in it,
text: with 105mm Howitzers, ready for any last minute attacks. The desert
text: appeared to be peaceful and deserted...then the Colonel saw the army
text: truck speeding toward the test sight. He turned toward Lieutenant
text: Glass, standing beside him.
speaker_heading: COLONELL NORDELL
dialog: Lieutenant, what's that vehicle doing down there?
text: The lieutenant glanced up, looking unconcerned. Two guys delivering a
dialog: refrigerator from Philco, sir.
speaker_heading: COLONELL NORDELL
dialog: From Philco? (shaking his head) Jesus H. Christ! How many refrigerators
dialog: do we have to blow up in this test?
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - 1.5 MILES FROM TEST SITE
text: Marty and the Professor reached the tract houses a few minutes after
text: being allowed inside. This suburbian site was 1.5 miles from the blast
text: site, according to a large sign nearby.
text: Professor Brown backed the truck into a driveway of a house where two
text: mannequins were positioned on the front lawn. The man was set up with a
text: lawn mower and the woman was in a chaise lounge. Marty looked at the
text: bizzare spectacle for a moment, then jumped out of the truck to open
text: the garage door for the Professor. He finished backing the truck inside
text: and switched off the ignition.
text: It was hot outside already so Marty took off his jacket and tossed it
text: inside the cab of the truck. He helped the Professor take the tarp off
text: the back and start to hook the time machine up.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DETONATION CONTROL ROOM
text: The clock read 11:30AM inside the detonation control room. The room
text: bustled with activity as the time drew near for the blast.
speaker_heading: TIMEKEEPER
text: Coming up on exactly 30 minutes to detonation. Lock all timing
dialog: circuits...now.
speaker_heading: TECHNITION
dialog: Mark!
text: He flipped a switch, starting four clocks counting down in sync.
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNITION
dialog: Check arming circuits!
text: The third technition looked at the board. Arming circuits are green.
speaker_heading: MAJOR LANZA
dialog: Final evacuation check!
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT JONES
dialog: Roger!
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - 1.5 MILES FROM TEST SITE
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: There it is -- Ground Zero... and your target is 800 yards.
text: Professor Brown and Marty peered through binoculars at the side of the
text: house. Behind them the time machine was ready for action, the power
text: converter set up on the roof of the truck with the solar cell panel
text: pointed toward the front of the vehicle.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It was sure nice of Uncle Sam to put those yardage markers up for us.
dialog: (noticing the markers at every 200 yards from the tower)
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: We're at one and a half miles, so you're just a little over a mile from
dialog: where you want to be, (lowering his binoculars) Wait until minus 3
dialog: minutes before you go -- that should give you plenty of time, and it
dialog: should be close enough to zero hour that they can't do anything to stop
dialog: you. Park the truck at 800 and get in the refri-- the time chamber.
text: Just be sure the nose of the truck is pointed at the bomb....the power
dialog: converter will do the rest.
text: Professor Brown headed into the garage again and Marty followed. The
text: motorcycle was on the ground, with the mannequin who had been mowing
text: the lawn in the side car passenger seat.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Here's a walkie-talkie, (handing Marty the object from inside the truck
dialog: and pointing to the channel selector knob) I'll be on this frequency.
dialog: (moving it up a few numbers) This one's the Army.
text: A voice from the control room came on, mixed with static.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: T minus 28 minutes, and counting.
dialog: The Professor checked the time.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I'd better go! (holding his hand out towards the teenager) Good luck,
dialog: Marty.
dialog: Marty shook his hand.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Thanks for everything, Pro.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Professor Brown grinned. I guess I'll see you in... about 30 years.
text: Marty swallowed hard, remembering the Professor being gunned down in
text: the future. This was the last time he would see him alive.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Uh... yeah... I hope so.
text: The Professor gave him an intense look.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Is something wrong?
text: Marty shook his head, biting his lower lip as he tried to fight back
text: the threat of tears.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It's just always so hard for me to say goodbye.
text: Marty turned suddenly and stepped outside, unable to stand looking at
text: the Professor any longer. After a moment, Professor Brown spoke.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Marty, (sounding hesitant) I know I've repeatedly asked you not to
dialog: tell me anything about the future, but....well, those loud bangs on the
dialog: tape recorder....are they....
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor -- there are some doors that shouldn't be opened, Marty said
text: softly, without turning around.
text: The Professor nodded slowly. In the background, the walkie-talkie
dialog: spoke.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: T minus 27 minutes.
text: Marty raised his binoculars again and looked at Ground Zero. The
text: Professor watched him for a moment, then went over to the motorcycle.
text: He stared at the mannequin, realizing that something was amiss.
text: Professor Brown reached into the truck cab and pulled out Marty's Army
text: jacket and placed it on the mannequin. Then he got on, started the
text: engine, and drove away.
text: Marty continued to look through the binoculars, hardly aware of the
text: Professor's departure.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MILITARY BUNKER
text: Lieutenant Glass watched the desert from the artillery bunker through
text: his own set of binoculars. He saw the motorcycle from the truck with
text: the refrigerator speed away with the two men who had come with it
text: inside. The Lieutenant turned to Colonel Nordell beside him.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT GLASS
dialog: There go those two lovers who brought the refrigerator.
text: Colonel Nordell nodded. All right. He picked up a phone nearby.
dialog: Evacuation is complete. This area is secure, he said into it.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - 1.5 MILES FROM TEST SITE
text: When the Professor vanished from view as he sped away, Marty lowered
text: his binoculars and checked the time. He had about 25 minutes left
text: before the bomb would detonate and over 20 minutes to go before he had
text: to start driving towards the site.
text: Marty decided now would be a good time to look around. He walked around
text: to the front of the house, taking a moment to check out the yard and
text: home's exterior. Except for the mannequins in the front, it looked
text: pretty typical for a 1950's home. Marty walked across the grass and
text: tried the door. It was unlocked. He stepped inside.
text: Marty was expecting the place to be empty. To his amazement, the inside
text: was completely furnished. It looked like a model home, awaiting
dialog: display. Current issues of popular -- in the 1950's, anyway --
text: magazines were on the tables. There was a radio, even a TV in the room.
text: Marty looked in the dining room and saw another group of mannequins
text: seated at the table, with place settings arranged before them. Marty
text: shook his head, chuckling at the lengths that the government went with
dialog: these experiments.
text: He went into the kitchen and looked around this room. It was completely
text: furnished like the other rooms, down to the last detail. In one corner
text: a Frigidaire refrigerator sat. Marty walked over to it and opened it
text: up. It was well stocked with food. He saw meat, cheese, milk eggs,
text: Coke, fruit, and vegetables. Marty plucked an apple from inside, took a
text: bite from it, then set it back inside. He shut the fridge and retraced
text: his steps back to the living room to check out the TV.
text: The TV was full of static and snow when he first switched it on. Marty
text: twisted the channel knob, finally tuning into a somewhat muddy image of
dialog: the Howdy Doody Show. Since it was the only thing he could get a
text: reception on, Marty watched Clarabell dancing around and slowly shook
text: his head.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: The 'fabulous fifties,'
dialog: He was grateful that he wouldn't be stuck in that decade forever.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DETONATION CONTROL ROOM
speaker_heading: TIMEKEEPER
dialog: T-minus fourteen minutes.
text: The first technition nodded.
speaker_heading: TECHNITION
dialog: Lock all arming circuits.
dialog: The task was completely quickly.
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNITION
text: Preliminary arming circuits locked.
dialog: The other two quickly followed.
speaker_heading: THIRD TECHNITION
text: Main arming circuits locked.
speaker_heading: FOURTH TECHNITION
text: Auxiliary arming circuits locked.
scene_heading: INT. MILITARY BUNKER
text: Inside the artillery bunker, Captain Teague began to pass out
text: sunglasses to his troops and to the privileged civilian spectators.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN TEAGUE
dialog: You are here to witness one of the most spectacular sights in the
dialog: history of man, he said. It is really quite beautiful. There will be an
text: intense white fireball that will recede into a bright yellow glow,
text: accompanied by an intense shock wave....
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT
text: Professor Brown headed towards the gate on his motorcycle as the M.P.
text: listened to the countdown on their radios.
speaker_heading: VOICE
text: T-minus 7 minutes. 7 minutes until final detonation.
text: As the Professor got closer to the gate, one of the M.P.'s opened it
text: and waved him through. Professor Brown waved back over his shoulder,
text: not slowing the vehicle down in the least.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - 1.5 MILES FROM TEST SITE
text: Marty started to take off his army fatigues as he watched the TV. Under
dialog: the clothes was the outfit he had come with from 1982. As soon as he
text: had shed the clothes from the Army, he switched the walkie-talkie on to
dialog: check the time before the bomb would go off.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: T-minus 6 minutes and counting...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT
text: Professor Brown continued the high speed on his motorcycle down a dirt
text: road, then up a hill and into the mountains. Finally, when the ground
text: leveled off, he cut the engine and stopped the motorcycle. The
text: Professor reached for the binoculars around his neck as he got off the
text: bike and walked to the edge of a cliff. He peered at the test sight
text: with it's tract homes and the tower where the nuclear bomb sat.
text: Professor Brown grabbed his walkie-talkie and listened to the control
dialog: voice.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ...5 minutes and counting...
text: He switched channels to the one Marty was on.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Calling Marty! (into the walkie-talkie) Do you read me?
text: There was a long pause, during which static played with the radio. Then
dialog: cut to:
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I read you, Pro.
dialog: Cut to:
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Is everything set? Have you put the formula in the power converter?
dialog: Cut to:
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: I'm on my way to do that right now.
dialog: 
text: Marty brought the walkie-talkie with him as he went into the garage and
text: opened the door into the cab to get his jacket with the bottles of Coke
dialog: in it. But it wasn't there!
text: Marty blinked, shocked, and checked the floor and behind the seats.
text: Nothing. He started to panic. Marty climbed into the back of the truck
dialog: and checked there, even though the chances were very slim that it could
dialog: have gotten there. It wasn't.
text: Marty snatched the walkie-talkie off the front seat where he had set
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor! (panicing and fearful) I can't find the formula! I left it
dialog: in my jacket, and my jacket's gone!
dialog: 
dialog: Cut to:
text: Professor Brown heard Marty's news and turned to look at the motorcycle
text: behind him. There was Marty's jacket, still on the mannequin where he
dialog: had inadvertently set it earlier.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Oh my God!
scene_heading: INT. DETONATION CONTROL ROOM
text: Detonation Control was getting busier and busier as the time for the
text: bomb to go off drew closer and closer.
speaker_heading: TIMEKEEPER
dialog: T-minutes 3 minutes, 30 seconds...
speaker_heading: TECHNITION
dialog: Released safety switches! First Safety.
text: The second technition flipped the switch before him.
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNITION
dialog: First safety released.
speaker_heading: THIRD TECHNITION
dialog: First safety released!
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT
text: Professor Brown was horrified at the turn of events that had suddenly
text: sprouted. He frantically called out instructions to Marty over the
text: walkie-talkie.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Marty, it's over. Do you understand? It's over. Now I want you to get
dialog: in the refrig-- the time chamber, and we'll just pray that the lead
dialog: lining --
text: MARTY (over walkie-talkie)
dialog: The refrigerator! Hang on, Professor!
text: Professor Brown stared at the walkie-talkie, wondering what was going
dialog: on.
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - 1.5 MILES FROM TEST SITE
text: Marty ran into the house and straight to the kitchen. He yanked open
text: the refrigerator and his eyes fell on those bottles of Coke he had seen
text: earlier. Marty let out a deep sigh of relief, though he knew the ordeal
text: was far from over. He'd had serious visions of his tombstone there for
text: a few minutes.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Don't worry about a thing! (into the walkie-talkie) There's plenty of
dialog: formula in the refrigerator!
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT
text: On the hill the Professor was confused. The refrigerator? he said to
text: himself. His eyes slid over to Marty's jacket in the motorcycle,
dialog: considering... After a moment, Professor Brown switched the frequency
text: on the walkie-talkie to get an update on the time.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: T-minutes 2 minutes, 50 seconds.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - 1.5 MILES FROM TEST SITE
text: Marty pulled himself up on top of the truck's cab to get to the power
text: converter, juggling the two bottles of Coke he had brought with him
text: from the refrigerator. Without thinking, Marty tried to twist the cap
text: off the bottle, but it wouldn't budge! He didn't have a bottle opener
dialog: with him either.
text: Aware of the time ticking down, Marty finally smashed the neck of the
text: bottle against the roof of the cab and poured the Coke -- along with a
text: few pieces of broken glass -- into the power converter.
scene_heading: INT. DETONATION CONTROL ROOM
speaker_heading: TIMEKEEPER
dialog: T minus 2 minutes...
speaker_heading: TECHNITION
dialog: Release second safely!
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNITION
dialog: Second safety released!
text: The switch was flipped.
speaker_heading: THIRD TECHNITION
dialog: Second safety released!
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - 1.5 MILES FROM TEST SITE
text: Marty climbed down from the roof off the truck and got inside the cab.
text: It started without his hitch and he slammed his foot against the
text: accelerator, heading in the direction of Ground Zero.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MILITARY BUNKER
text: Colonel Nordell watched the bomb site with his binoculars from the
text: artillery bunker. It was deserted as it should be. He was about to turn
text: away, when a flash of movement caught his eye. He couldn't believe it
text: when he saw the truck racing towards the site of the bomb.
speaker_heading: COLONEL NORDELL
dialog: Jesus! What's that truck doing out there?
text: Captain Teague and Lieutenant Glass turned to look through their
text: binoculars.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN TEAGUE
dialog: He's heading straight for the bomb!
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT GLASS
dialog: He's gotta be a Commie spy -- trying to sabotage the test!
speaker_heading: COLONEL NORDELL
dialog: Captain! Get your men on this artillery and blow that truck to Kingdom
dialog: Come!
text: Captain Teague nodded curtly and turned to his crew.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN TEAGUE
dialog: Men, get on this artillery and blow that truck to Kingdom Come! Fire
dialog: mission! Let's move!
text: The military men made a dash for the 105mm Howitzer.
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - EN ROUTE TO GROUND ZERO
text: Marty drove the truck past mile marker 1.3, unaware of the eminent
text: danger. Gun breeches were opened with 105mm shells being loaded inside
text: the artillery bunker. The weapons were slammed shut and cranked around
text: towards the outside and the truck.
scene_heading: INT. ARTILERY BUNKER
speaker_heading: SARGENT GUNTHER
dialog: Captain! Give us some coordinates!
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN TEAGUE
dialog: (shaking his head) I don't have any! We'll have to fire direct!
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - EN ROUTE TO GROUND ZERO
text: Marty drove by the 1 mile mark as the three Howitzers were pointed in
text: his vague direction.
dialog: Cut to:
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN TEAGUE
dialog: Fire!
dialog: Cut back to:
text: Something suddenly exploded a hundred feet to Marty's side, dirt
text: raining down everywhere. Marty gripped the wheel tightly in his hands,
text: his nerves strung out.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Jesus!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ARTILERY BUNKER
text: Meanwhile, Captain Teague was shouting more instructions at his men.
text: Having seen the first blast with his binoculars, he now had a better
dialog: idea where to fire.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN TEAGUE
dialog: Drop 5 elevation, add 8 deflection!
text: Another weapon was adjusted to the position and fired.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - EN ROUTE TO GROUND ZERO
text: Marty had managed to calm himself down after the first explosion. He'd
text: hardly began to breathe normally again when something else exploded,
text: this one a lot closer in front of the truck, but still off to the side.
text: Marty twisted the wheel to the side, terrified of being blow up, hardly
text: noticing the 1400 yards marker as he drove by it.
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT
text: On the hill, Professor Brown could see the whole thing through his
text: binoculars.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Oh my God! he cried, feeling helpless to do anything.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DETONATION CONTROL ROOM
speaker_heading: TIMEKEEPER
dialog: One minute, fifteen seconds!
speaker_heading: TECHNITION
dialog: Release final safety.
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNITION
dialog: Final safety released!
text: The third technition flipped the switch.
speaker_heading: THIRD TECHNITION
dialog: Final safety released!
scene_heading: INT. ARTILERY BUNKER
text: In the artillery bunker, Sergeant Gunther realigned the Howitzer, to a
dialog: new position.
scene_heading: SERGEANT GUNTHER
dialog: Drop 2 elevation, minus 3 deflection.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - EN ROUTE TO GROUND ZERO
text: The new shell hit the ground several yards before the truck, sending a
text: heavy rain of dirt on the windshield. Marty drove around the hole and
text: looked behind him, shuddering as he realized how close that one had
text: come. Up ahead was his goal, the 800 yard maker. Marty slammed the
text: truck to a stop and turned to the Army channel on the walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Exactly one minute till detonation! the voice said. 59....58....
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ARTILERY BUNKER
speaker_heading: COLONEL NORDELL
text: (lowering his binoculars and turning to Captain Teague) He's stopped,
dialog: Captain! Right at the 800 yard marker!
dialog: Captain Teague smiled tightly.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN TEAGUE
dialog: We'll get him for sure this time! Add 1 and a half elevation! he added
dialog: to his men.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - STOPPED
text: Inside the truck, Marty listened to the countdown, his heart pounding
text: with exhilaration and fear.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ...53...52....
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hurry up!
text: He threw open the door of the truck to the outside.
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT
text: Professor Brown continued to watch the truck with Marty in it, his
text: walkie- talkie in the other hand.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Move the truck! They're gonna draw a bead on you!
text: The truck did not move.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ARTILERY BUNKER
text: Sergeant Gunther finished the adjustments on his weapon.
scene_heading: SERGEANT GUNTHER
dialog: I've got a bead on him!
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TRUCK - STOPPED
text: Marty was about to climb in the back of the truck, the countdown still
text: on his walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ..47...46...
text: Marty let out an impatient sigh and decided to report in to the
text: Professor. He flipped the channel, but before he could say anything, he
text: heard Professor Brown was yelling at him over the airwaves.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN (over walkie-talkie)
dialog: Back up! Back up! (frantic) They're drawing a bead on you! Back up!
text: Marty froze for a moment, then took off for the cab of the truck as
text: fast as he could, expecting to be hit by some weapon any second.
scene_heading: INT. ARTILERY BUNKER
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN TEAGUE
speaker_heading: FIRE!
text: Sergeant Gunther pulled the trigger and the cannon let out a noise that
dialog: shook the ground.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK
text: Marty turned the key in the ignition of the truck, threw the stick
text: shift into reverse, and hit the gas pedal as hard as he could.
text: A second later, a huge explosion wiped out the 800 yard marker where he
text: had been parked. The truck trembled from the shock wave. Marty stopped
text: the truck several hundred feet away and watched the smoke clear. A huge
text: crater in the ground was all that remained of yard marker 800, where he
text: had been seconds before. He swallowed hard.
scene_heading: INT. DETONATION CONTROL ROOM
speaker_heading: TIMEKEEPER
text: T-minus 30 seconds! the voice from detonation control said.
text: Colonel Nordell turned away from the window before the smoke cleared on
text: the last explosion.
speaker_heading: COLONEL NORDELL
dialog: Everybody into the bunker! Take cover! Now!
text: There was a mad dash as the men all left their posts and headed for the
text: stairs that lead to the underground bomb shelter. The truck was
dialog: forgotten.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK
text: Marty could hear the voice start counting down the remaining thirty
text: seconds before the bomb would go off. He turned the key in the
text: ignition, but the engine wouldn't start! His face grew even paler then
dialog: it was already as he tried it again. Still, nothing happened!
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ....24....23....22...
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT
text: Up on the hill, Professor Brown kept his binoculars trained on Marty's
dialog: truck.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Come on, Marty! (unaware that Marty was having any problems) Come on!
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ....20...19....18...
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK
text: Marty swallowed hard, gripping the key as hard as he could and turning
text: it for the third time. The engine groaned....but then it caught! He
text: sighed in relief and aimed at the crater, over a hundred yards away.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ...14...13...12...
text: Marty grabbed the walkie-talkie and leaned over it, wedging it against
text: the accelerator. The truck started moving and he threw opened the door,
text: jumping to the ground. The truck picked up speed as Marty ran to the
text: back, grabbing hold of the sides of the vehicle and pulling himself
text: inside. He threw the switches on the time machine, turning it on and
dialog: preparing it for the trip back... he hoped.
text: It could have been his imagination, but Marty swore he could still hear
text: the timekeeper over the roar of everything.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ...9...8...7...
text: The truck pitched forward into the gaping hole left from the Howitzer
text: shell. Marty lost his balance, unprepared for the jolt, and fell into
text: the bed of the truck. His head struck the metal floor, which left him
text: slightly dazed for a second. He realized that the truck had gotten
text: slightly off center with where the solar cell that was positioned just
text: so as it had fallen and quickly climbed to his feet to jerk the cells
dialog: back where they belonged.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ...5...4...3...
text: Marty threw open the door of the refrigerator -- or time chamber --
dialog: and stepped inside.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ...2...1...
text: He slammed the door shut.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DETONATION CONTROL ROOM
speaker_heading: TIMEKEEPER
dialog: Detonate!
text: Three technitions, turned their keys at the same time, setting off an
text: incredible white fireball that made the surroundings invisible with
text: light for a moment before dimming to a glow of softer yellow.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TIME MACHINE/REFRIDGERATOR
text: The bright white light hit the power converter. Marty glanced up inside
text: his cramped quarters to see a thin beam of the same color hit him from
text: the focusing lense suspended above his head. He closed his eyes as a
text: strange feeling swept over his body....
text: The yellow glow from the bomb lasted a few moments, turning everything
text: yellow. The tower which housed the bomb was vaporized and the truck of
text: Marty and the Professor's began to melt from the intense heat. Inside
text: the command bunker, the Army officers with their men and the chosen
text: civilians gaped at the site before them as the mushroom cloud formed,
text: it's radioactive smoke reaching thousands of feet into the atmosphere.
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - HILL
text: Safely on the hill, Professor Brown turned his back on the site and
text: over to the mannequin in the sidecar. A medium sized bulge rested in
text: one of the pockets of the Army jacket. The Professor looked at it a
text: long moment, long after the light of the bomb faded and the shock wave
text: had passed. He remembered Marty's words from earlier and wondered:
dialog: Should I look....?
scene_heading: INT. TIME MACHINE
text: Marty saw completely and utter darkness around him. The air around him
text: had grow hot and stuffy. He resisted the urge to cough and felt for the
text: handle of the refrigerator door. His hand came into contact with it
text: after a moment's search and he pushed forward.
scene_heading: EXT. NEVADA DESERT - 1982
text: A crack of sunlight split the darkness. Marty pushed the door harder
text: and a shower of sand rained on him. He climbed to the outside world.
text: The sun was shining brightly in a clear blue sky. Marty looked down at
text: the refrigerator and saw that it was half rotted and worn away with
text: age. Next to it, he recognized the remains of the Army truck, twisted
text: and almost unrecognizable, half buried in the sand.
text: Marty took a step away from the refrigerator and looked around him. It
text: was barren out here. He saw nothing but an ocean of hot sand all
text: around. Marty glanced at his watch. It was noon exactly. He squinted up
text: at the merciless glare of the sun.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Shit!
dialog: Marty decided the best thing for him to do would be to start walking.
text: He set off in the direction of the sun, not sure which way to head. A
text: few minutes after he started the hike, Marty started to hear a low hum
text: off in the distance. It sounded like a helicopter.
text: The sound grew closer and he looked up at the sky, his eyes searching
text: for the source. He saw something in the sky, but it looked strange. The
text: craft started to lower itself toward the ground, grains of sand flying
text: everywhere. Marty squinted his eyes and put a hand over them, turning
text: his head away. Between the glare of the sun on the thing, and all the
text: flying sand, it was almost impossible to tell anything about it.
text: After a moment, the noise faded away and Marty turned around. Right in
text: front of him was a strange sight. It looked like a car from the
text: 1950's....but it had three whitewalls, propellers, and funny fins on
text: the side. At the back of the car was something that resembled the
text: Professor's power converter. As Marty stared at the contraption, he
text: noticed Professor Brown in the driver's seat.
text: Marty opened his mouth to say something, but nothing came out. The
text: Professor opened the door and jumped out, heading towards Marty. He
text: looked older then he had in 1952, but not as much as he had in 1982.
text: Professor Brown seemed different to Marty, his posture straighter with
text: more of a spark in his eyes.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Marty! You're here! Right on time! How are you? Feeling okay?
text: Marty tried to speak again.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (hesitantly) What year is this?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: (beaming) 1982! March 18, just like we planned! My calculations were
dialog: absolutely correct! Thirty years! God, I cannot believe it's been
dialog: thirty years! Sure, it was a long time ago -- longest I've ever had to
dialog: wait for the results of an experiment!
dialog: Marty was confused.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: And you're alive, Professor? (remembering what happened right before he
dialog: left 1982) You weren't shot?
text: Professor Brown looked at him blankly.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Shot? Who'd want to shoot me? I've never felt better in my life!
text: Marty didn't know what to say about that. He continued to stare at the
text: flying vehicle and at the Professor.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: Hop in, Marty, (turning and heading for the vehicle). We've got a long
dialog: drive ahead of us.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What do you call this? (as he cautiously started towards the
dialog: contraption)
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
text: A car.
text: Marty watched as Professor Brown opened the door and got inside. He
dialog: slowly followed suit.
speaker_heading: INT. CAR
text: Inside the car, Marty noticed the controls and the dashboard were
text: streamlined in a kind of old-fashioned futuristic style. He was
text: distracted from his examination of the car's interior by the Professor
text: leaning over and pulling out a 16 ounce bottle of Coke. He grabbed a
text: bottle opener that was on the dashboard and opened it up, then pulled
text: open the dashboard in front of Marty and hooked the bottle to a funnel
text: labeled fuel inside. Marty remembered leaving the formula in his
text: jacket. Somehow, Professor Brown must have found it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Professor... You peaked, didn't you?
text: Professor Brown shrugged, looking a little sheepish.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Yeah. I figured, what the hell!
text: A moment later he lifted the car up from the sand and flew them away
text: from the old nuclear test site.
dialog: 
text: Professor Brown waited a few minutes before starting to answer some of
text: the questions Marty had begun to throw at him. Marty wanted to know
dialog: everything that had happened over the past thirty years to the
text: Professor. Things seemed so different from when he had left.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: You see, I never rebuilt the time machine after it was destroyed in
dialog: 1952. I decided that experimenting with time and possibly changing
dialog: history was too risky. Anyway, experiments in time travel were banned
dialog: in all 87 states after the governor of Cuba caught Dr. Felstien fooling
dialog: around in the Bermuda Triangle -- that was back in '64.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: 87 states? Time travel bans? What the hell?
dialog: Marty didn't understand anything. He tried not to think about that part
dialog: of the conversation. There were some other, more important things to
dialog: wonder about.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: But if you didn't rebuild the time machine, how did I go back in time
dialog: in the first place?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: According to your girlfriend, Suzy Parker, you and she were at the
dialog: movies. You went to the restroom and you never came out. Obviously, you
text: stepped through an inter-dimensional time warp, created by the original
dialog: operation of the time machine.
text: Most of this was still going over Marty's head.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Obviously! (trying to appear that he understood.)
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: But I told everyone your disappearance was due to a teleportation
dialog: experiment you were helping me with. So don't mention anything about
dialog: time travel to anyone.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: (nodding) What theater was I at?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: The Orpheum.
text: Marty smiled, some of this finally clicking into place. He looked out
text: the window and saw, far below, a clean and more of that old-fashioned
text: modern look on a city. It had streamlined skyscrapers and even some
text: flying cars. Marty couldn't believe it.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Wow! Look at that city!
text: Professor Brown glanced out the window.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Pretty, isn't it?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: It's the most beautiful city I've ever seen! What is it?
text: The Professor smiled at him.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Cleveland.
scene_heading: EXT. McFLY HOUSE
text: It was night when they reached Marty's house. It was the same one he
text: had left, but it looked different. On closer inspection, Marty noticed
text: the corners were more rounded, almost streamlined, and a large power
text: converter sat on the roof next to the chimney. The Professor landed his
text: car next to another one in the driveway that had all the elaborate
dialog: propellers and stuff on it too. Marty guessed that this was considered
dialog: the norm here.
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: Go on in, (noticing Marty's hesitation) I'll be with you as soon as I
dialog: adjust this blasted flow capacitor.
text: As Marty got out of the car, he noticed more flying cars, busses, even
text: trucks in the air above his home. He shook his head and turned his
text: attention back to his house. He stared at it a long moment and took a
text: deep breath before walking to the front door. Marty rang the doorbell,
text: unsure if he should just barge in. With all the changes he had seen so
dialog: far, he wasn't sure if it would be a good idea.
text: The door was answered a minute later, but not by who he had expected. A
text: robot, looking vaguely like the one Marty had seen on Professor Brown's
text: blueprints that one night, pulled the door open. It was only about
text: three or four feet high, with a little bow tie on.
speaker_heading: ROBOT
dialog: Greetings, Master Martin. Let me take your coat.
text: Marty stared at the thing for a moment.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Right....
text: He slowly took off his silver Porsche jacket and handed it to the
text: robot. Finally, he stepped into his house.
scene_heading: INT. McFLY HOUSE
dialog: Marty was surprised. Things actually didn't look that different from
text: when he had left. His mother, sitting in the living room, jumped to her
text: feet and rushed towards him.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Marty! You're back! I'm so glad to see you!
text: Eileen McFly gave her son a hug, then seemed to notice his clothes. She
text: looked at Marty, a faint smile on her face.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Where did you get these silly clothes?
text: Without waiting for an answer, she turned to the robot.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Sparky, get Marty some clean clothes.
speaker_heading: ROBOT
dialog: Yes, Madam.
text: Marty watched him turning and heading out of the room, as his mother
dialog: spoke again.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Your father's in the study. Say hello to him.
text: He nodded and walked down the hall. Marty stopped halfway to the study,
text: suddenly noticing several display cases hanging on the hallway wall. In
text: one there was a pair of boxing gloves with a plaque: McFly-Liston
text: Fight, Madison Square Garden, 1966. In the case next to that was a
dialog: silver boxing champion's belt with George M. McFly, World Middleweight
text: Champion, 1963. In the last one was a framed magazine ad with a picture
text: of George McFly holding a weird device with the words: The Champ gives
dialog: tooth decay the One-Two Punch with Son-O-Dent ultra sonic tooth care
text: system, by E. Brown Enterprises, under the photo.
dialog: Marty was surprised and a little shocked on all that had happened since
dialog: he had left.
text: George McFly looked up from his desk as Marty entered his study.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Welcome home, son!
text: His voice sounded a little different to Marty's ears. More confident
text: and forceful, not nearly as meek, like it had been before.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: The Professor told us what happened with the experiment -- that there
dialog: might be some side effects... lapses of memory.
text: Marty edged closer to the desk to get a better look at this new George
text: McFly. He, like the Professor, seemed different -- for the better, but
text: still different. Dad didn't seem to notice his scrutiny. He continued
dialog: talking.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Your mom's got one heckuva dinner planned tonight! She's been pushing
dialog: buttons all day!
text: Marty nodded as if he understood, and as he did so, he noticed a
text: familiar looking figure outside the window. His eyes narrowed and Marty
text: realized it was Biff, wearing a security guard uniform and in a chaise
text: lounge, appearing to be asleep. Marty's father followed his gaze and
text: opened the window.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Hey, Biff! What are you doing, sleeping on the job? A security guard's
dialog: supposed to be alert!
text: Biff smiled and sat up.
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: Yes, sir, Mr. McFly!
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What am I paying you fifty cents an hour for?
speaker_heading: BIFF
dialog: I'm sorry, Champ, (getting to his feet) It won't happen again, sir.
text: He began to walk around the yard.
text: George closed the window and sat back down at his desk. Marty watched
text: as he attached a suction cup that was connected by wire to something
text: that looked like a pen on his forehead. He waved the pen over a blank
text: check and with a few electronic beeps, handwriting appeared on the
text: paper, spelling out, Pay to the order of the Coca Cola Company.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What are you doing, Dad?
text: Marty watched, eyes wide in amazement.
text: His father glanced up, puzzled.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What's it look like I'm doing, son? I'm paying the fuel bill. It's over
dialog: $2.00 this month -- we really oughta try to cut down.
text: Marty continued to watch his father. George looked a little concerned.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What's wrong, son? You act like you've never seen a Write-O-Matic
dialog: before.
text: Marty pulled out his Bic pen from his pocket and looked at it, shaking
text: his head.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Say, what have you got there? (noticing the pen for the first time) An
dialog: antique pen? Let me see that! He took it from Marty and examined it
dialog: carefully. I haven't seen one of these in....well, this is strange. How
dialog: do you fill it with ink?
text: Marty's father flashed him a strange look, which made Marty feel
text: slightly uneasy. He looked like he wanted to say something, but before
text: he did, someone knocked on the door. A second later, Eileen came into
dialog: the room.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Marty, there's someone here to see you.
text: Suzy Parker came into the room. She was wearing some strange clothes,
text: with her hair styled in a different, unusual way, but Marty didn't
dialog: care.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Suzy!
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: Hi, Marty!
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: What did you do to your hair?
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: What did you do to yours?
text: Marty and Suzy both laughed as Professor Brown slipped into the room.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Hey, how's my favorite girl?
dialog: She smiled.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: Fine, Mr. McFly.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why don't you two get out of here -- I'm sure you can find something
dialog: better to do than watch me pay bills!
text: Suzy looked at her boyfriend critically.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: Marty, you'd better change your clothes. You can't go to Mambo Class
dialog: looking like that.
text: Marty stared at her blankly.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Mambo class? You mean people still do the Mambo?
dialog: Suzy shrugged.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: Sure. Everybody does the Mambo!
text: Marty thought about that for a moment, wondering something important.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Don't tell me you've never heard of rock'n roll...
text: Suzy now directed a blank look at him.
speaker_heading: SUZY
dialog: Rock and what?
scene_heading: PROFESSOR EMMETT BROWN
dialog: I've never heard of it either.
text: Marty gave a big grin.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Well maybe it's time you did!
text: He took Suzy's hand and the two of them left the room, Eileen and
text: Professor Brown following.
text: George McFly was left alone in his study, sitting at his desk.
text: Something about the conversation earlier with his son was gnawing at
text: him. He opened his desk drawer and pulled out his hydraulic scrapbook.
text: After he plugged it in, the pneumatic cylinders began to turn the pages
text: automatically. It stopped at a certain page and George looked at the
dialog: newspaper clipping he had saved in there, way back thirty years ago.
dialog: Police Quell Near Riot At School Dance, the headlined said. It was that
dialog: old Springtime in Paris dance the article was talking about. Beneath
text: the headline was a somewhat grainy photograph of the young man on stage
text: who had played that strange music. As George looked closer, he saw that
text: the young man in the picture bore a striking resemblance to his son.
dialog: George shook his head slowly.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Nah. Couldn't be....
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
