dialog: 
speaker_heading: BAD DREAMS
dialog: Written by
dialog: Andrew Fleming &amp; Steven E. de Souza
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 1 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - SUNSET 1
text: A serene landscape, mist collecting as the red ball of a sun
text: dips behind the mountains.
text: In the middle of a field stands a bare-chested man facing the
text: sunset. He is HARRIS, forty-ish, greying but handsome, and
text: very fit. His hands are outstretched as if embracing an
text: invisible entity. He seems filled with some sort of
text: transcendental power. Now, an air of fulfillment and resolve
text: settles over him. He turns and walks away from us. CAMERA
dialog: ADJUSTS and reveals--
scene_heading: 2 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - LONG SHOT - SUNSET 2
text: Once the home of Victorian Gentry, a few seasons of amateur
dialog: repair work have not compensated for decades of neglect. But
text: now as Harris walks towards it, the fading daylight and long
text: shadows turn it into a fantasy castle. MUSIC ECHOES faintly
text: from within; it's "In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida" by Iron Butterfly. If
dialog: the music didn't place the era for us, the battered VW
text: MINIBUS parked outside the house does; it's covered with
text: flower paintings, slogans, and the ubiquitous peace sign.
text: As Harris approaches the house, a dozen or so YOUNG PEOPLE
text: rush to greet him and embrace him. Extending his arms out to
text: enclose them all, he goes inside.
scene_heading: 3 INT. COMMON ROOM - SUNSET 3
text: This was probably a stately parlor in its day. There is a
text: funky assembly of odd handmade furniture. There are muslin
text: curtains on the windows, crude paintings, and quilts covering
text: ripped chairs and couches. Despite the squalor, there is a
text: neatness to the place. Now, the CAMERA begins to ROAM
text: through the room and down the hallways lined with fading
text: wallpaper.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: (various)
dialog: --where did she go...? ... was
dialog: here a moment ago... Cynthia, come
dialog: on, honey, we need you... Cynthia,
dialog: come out, come out wherever you
dialog: are... the sun's going down, we're
dialog: losing the moment...!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 2.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: VOICES(CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, mellow out, we got ten
dialog: minutes, I like, checked the
dialog: almanac, okay...? Ready or not,
dialog: here we come...
text: All these comments are made in relaxed and good natured
text: tones. Finally the CAMERA PANS OVER to a little storage
text: alcove beneath the servant's stairway. A HAND reaches in and
text: opens the door, and inside we SEE cartons, antique toys...
text: and then CYNTHIA, a pretty 13 year old girl who wears funky
text: clothing and a haunted, nervous expression.
speaker_heading: VOICES (CONT'D)
dialog: ...There you are, you naughty girl!
dialog: You almost made us lose the
dialog: sunset... Come on, honey, time's
dialog: wasting...
text: She shrinks back from the HANDS that are pulling her up and
text: out, but they prevail, and she's up and on unsteady feet.
text: The CAMERA stays with her as she's led back down the hallway.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (faintly)
dialog: No, please... I... I really don't
dialog: want to do this... Can't I just
dialog: wait for you..? I--I'm not sure
dialog: about this--
text: A SET OF HANDS moves in, separates Cynthia from the others.
speaker_heading: 4 NEW ANGLE 4
text: Revealing VICTOR, a handsome youth a few years older than
dialog: Cynthia.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Easy, Cyn, easy. You don't want to
dialog: do this, that's okay... right,
dialog: Harris?
text: The VOICES stop as everyone awaits an answer. CAMERA PANS
text: across the common room, to the end we haven't seen yet.
text: In the center of the room is a big cistern or font. As we
text: watch, Harris has just DUNKED someone in it. The person
text: steps out, laughing, sloshing in amber liquid. Standing
text: around are other people, some already dripping wet, others
text: awaiting their turns. Some are clothed and wet, others in
text: varying degrees of undress. It all seems slightly off,
text: slightly eerie, despite their smiles and cheer. Harris
text: splashes himself with the amber liquid from the tub, pushes
text: his hair back.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 3.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: No, Victor, it's not okay. Here
dialog: at Unity House, some things have to
dialog: be done...
dialog: (slight smile)
dialog: ...in Unity. This is one of them.
text: He WADES CLOSER to the CAMERA, within reach of Cynthia,
text: Victor and the others. Smiles again. It's the kind of a
text: smile that inspires trust.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Cynthia, do you trust me?
text: She nods immediately.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: And have I ever lied to you?
text: She shakes her head. He GESTURES. The people around Cynthia
text: begin to GET INTO the tub. Some remove their clothing;
text: others get in clothes and all. Toddlers and infants are held
text: by their parents and playfully splashed.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Then I say to you now... to all of
dialog: you now... that this will be the
dialog: Ultimate Joining... of man and
dialog: woman... parent and child...
dialog: humanity and Godhead.
text: He looks at Victor, who reluctantly lets Cynthia's hand go,
text: gets in. Now only Cynthia remains.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Cynthia. Come. There is no shame
dialog: in this. No crime. No sin. Just
dialog: the final break with the old
dialog: world... As night falls, we start
dialog: a new day... a day of Unity.
dialog: (a command, but warm)
dialog: Come to me... my lovechild.
scene_heading: 5 ON CYNTHIA 5
text: His last words melt her remaining resistance. Moving like a
text: sleepwalker, she steps into the tub, wades forward. Then she
text: stops, looks down at the fluid lapping at her jeans... runs
text: her hand through it. Her eyes widen.
dialog: 4.
scene_heading: 6 EXT. HOUSE - LONG SHOT 6
text: The sun almost gone now, red light reflecting on the gabled
text: windows. Even the battered VW van looks good in this
text: setting. It's beautiful.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA'S VOICE
dialog: No! No...
speaker_heading: HARRIS' VOICE
dialog: Cynthia, come back! We can't do it
dialog: without you... We must have unity,
dialog: my lovechild... Unity, now and
dialog: through eternity... Cynthia, you
dialog: cannot run... You belong to us
dialog: forever--!
text: Pause. The faint SOUNDS of SPLASHING and then FOOTSTEPS
text: skittering on tired wooden floors... and then--
scene_heading: --UNITY HOUSE EXPLODES!
scene_heading: 7 EXPLOSION - ANOTHER ANGLE 7
text: WINDOWS blow out. Splintered BEAMS propeller through the
text: air. The VW camper on the lawn ROCKS with the shock wave.
text: Then a SECOND EXPLOSION blows the Victorian cupolas and
text: widow's walk off the roof. From somewhere in the distance we
text: HEAR SIRENS...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 8 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - NIGHT 8
text: FIRE is CONSUMING what's left of the building. Rescue
text: workers and firefighters are running back and forth.
scene_heading: 9 INSPECTOR WASSERMAN 9
text: A plainclothes detective, he NODS to some uniforms, steps
text: around some debris to move closer to the scene. He puts his
text: collar up against the SPRAY which leaks from firehose
text: connections. Seeing one of his men, he SHOUTS over the din.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: What have we got?
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
text: Twenty-four bodies, Inspector.
dialog: Maybe more.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 5.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: As he says this, both men watch as firefighters carry out a
text: SCORCHED AND BLACKENED CORPSE that looks like a 3,000 year
text: old mummy.
scene_heading: 10 CORPSE - CLOSER 10
text: It's set down on the ground beside other blackened bodies
text: partially covered by tarps. As the body is set down it
text: CRUNCHES, and a piece BREAKS OFF.
scene_heading: 11 BACK TO SCENE 11
text: Wasserman blanches, wipes his mouth.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Cause of fire?
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Some kind of explosion... gas main,
dialog: methane, too soon to tell. God
dialog: only knows.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Let's hope He doesn't keep it to
dialog: Himself.
speaker_heading: A VOICE
dialog: We got one! We got a survivor! Get
dialog: a stretcher and oxygen over here,
dialog: STAT!
text: Wasserman and the cop run up the slope with the others.
scene_heading: 12 RUINS - CLOSER 12
text: Medics run around the parked VW, which drips water and
text: chemical foam. Rescue workers move a FALLEN BEAM and pull a
text: soot-blackened form out of a hole. As the CAMERA PUSHES
text: closer, we see that it is Cynthia. Her clothes are torn and
text: singed, and she is unconscious, but as they work on her we
text: see that she is largely unharmed.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: (busy, frantic)
dialog: Make room, make room! Get that
dialog: airway in! I got a pulse, whoa,
dialog: it's faint... Talk about lucky,
dialog: she musta fallen in the basement...
dialog: First and second degree burns...
dialog: Come on people, move your asses!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 6.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
text: Wasserman tries to keep up as they carry her on a stretcher
text: towards an ambulance, put her inside. It ROARS AWAY, SIREN
text: WAILING. MUSIC COMES UP AND OVER-- it's MAGIC CARPET RIDE by
dialog: Steppenwolf.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER'S VOICE
dialog: (filtered)
dialog: --Authorities continue to
dialog: investigate yesterday's mysterious
text: explosion and fire at Unity House,
dialog: the controversial New Age commune
text: headed by self-styled Guru Adrian
dialog: Harris. 32 people died in the
dialog: blaze. Thirteen year old Cynthia
text: Weston, the fire's only survivor,
text: remains in guarded but stable
dialog: condition at County General. In
dialog: national news, newspaper heiress
dialog: Patricia Hearst was abducted from
dialog: her Bay area apartment shortly
dialog: before dawn today... A communique
dialog: from the so-called "Symbionese
dialog: Liberation Army" demanded that...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 13 INT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT 13
text: The doors CRASH ASIDE as Cynthia is rushed in on a gurney.
text: The CEILING LIGHTS flicker past us as they move her into the
text: emergency room.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: Blood pressure 90 over 30, we're
dialog: losing her... Where's that cart?
dialog: CLEAR! CLEAR! Okay, it's
dialog: climbing... Watch the EEG...
dialog: Brain activity, shit, damn low...
text: We begin a SERIES OF DISSOLVES, including:
text: A) WASSERMAN, who appears first in his clothes
text: from the fire, then two other wardrobe changes;
text: B) HOSPITAL PERSONNEL, at first the harried and
text: rushed emergency staff, and then the more blase
dialog: regular doctors and nurses;
scene_heading: C) VARIOUS MEDICAL EQUIPMENT, as a series of
scene_heading: DIAGNOSTIC TESTS are run on Cynthia--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 7.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: D) CYNTHIA, first in her fire-scorched clothing,
text: then as it is cut away, and then in several
text: HOSPITAL GOWNS, first white, then green, then
dialog: blue...
text: E) A SERIES OF HOSPITAL ROOMS AND LABS;
text: P) HOSPITAL CHARTS AND FILES, with ever-changing
speaker_heading: DATES;
speaker_heading: VOICES (CONT'D)
dialog: (over this)
dialog: No sign of physical damage but
dialog: neurological functions still
dialog: depressed... Sorry, Inspector, no
dialog: changes... Patient comatose after
dialog: 14 days... Brain scan shows minor
dialog: irregularities; pupil function
dialog: within normal range... Still no
dialog: sign of consciousness... Still
dialog: comatose after 21 days ... Sorry,
dialog: Inspector, we'll call you if
dialog: there's any progress... Still
dialog: comatose after 42 days... Patient
dialog: moved out of intensive care....
text: As the MONTAGE CONTINUES, TITLES BEGIN. Now we HEAR VARIOUS
text: NEWS BROADCASTS which come UP AND OVER, fading IN AND OUT
dialog: with the medical VOICES. (If desired, TV NEWSCASTS might be
text: seen as well on a hospital room's set.)
scene_heading: VARIOUS NEWSCASTERS' VOICES
dialog: (filtered, in and out,
dialog: intermittently audible)
dialog: ...The mother of Martin Luther King
dialog: Junior was assassinated today while
text: she played the organ in her son's
dialog: church... interrupt to bring this
dialog: bulletin... Richard Milhous Nixon
dialog: has resigned as President of the
dialog: United States... As the Marine
text: guards hold back the crowds, the
text: last helicopters took off from the
dialog: roof of the Embassy in Saigon...
text: Bicentennial festivities begin
dialog: today in Philadelphia...
scene_heading: 14 MONTAGE - CONTINUED 14
text: We SEE Cynthia in her bad, always in the same near-fetal
dialog: position. The only changes are the occasionally different
text: hues of her blankets and the varying length of her hair.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 8.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTERS
dialog: --leak at the Three Mile Island
dialog: facility... 73 Americans remain
text: hostage in the Teheran Embassy...
dialog: Ronald Reagan has been elected 40th
dialog: President... renewed fighting in
dialog: the Middle East... assailant shot
text: John Lennon at point blank range...
dialog: President Reagan has been shot! He
dialog: is in guarded condition at... The
dialog: Pope has been shot! He was rushed
dialog: by ambulance to... President Anwar
dialog: Sadat has been assassinated...
scene_heading: 14A BERRISFORD - IN MONTAGE 14A
text: We SEE several SHOTS of this man, first as a white-coated
text: RESIDENT in his late 30's, walking past Cynthia's hospital
text: doorway, and then stopping, curious, and looking in on her...
dialog: and then in--
scene_heading: 14B OTHER SHOTS - BERRISFORD 14B
dialog: as (with changing wardrobe and increasing status) he checks
text: in on the girl's unaltered condition as months and years
dialog: continue to click by:
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTERS(CONT'D)
dialog: ...the Korean airliner was shot
text: down by a Soviet jet, killing all
dialog: 269 people aboard... invasion of
dialog: the island Nation of Grenada...
dialog: Prime Minister Indira Ghandi was
dialog: assassinated by members of her own
dialog: bodyguard... the PLO hijackers
text: shot the wheelchair-bound American
text: and threw his body overboard...
dialog: Space Shuttle Challenger exploded
dialog: moments after launch... renewed
dialog: fighting today in the Middle
dialog: East... President Corazon Aquino
dialog: asked the soldiers to lay down
dialog: their arms... Senator Gary Hart
dialog: withdrew from the race... Fawn
dialog: Hall... Lieutenant Colonel Oliver
dialog: North... Contrascam
dialog: Investigation... PTL scandal...
text: munitions train severed the lag of
dialog: a protester at the... renewed
dialog: fighting in the Middle East...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
dialog: 9.
scene_heading: 15 INT. HOSPITAL NURSE'S STATION - DAY 15
text: The HEAD NURSE looks up, smiles at a YOUNG FLOOR NURSE as she
text: walks past. From somewhere we HEAR a Springsteen song on the
dialog: radio.
speaker_heading: HEAD NURSE
dialog: Debbie. What happened to your
dialog: windsurfing lesson?
speaker_heading: YOUNG NURSE
dialog: No wind. I changed shifts with
dialog: Nancy.
dialog: (picking up charts)
dialog: Well... time to weed the vegetable
dialog: patch.
text: We FOLLOW the young nurse as she goes into--
scene_heading: 16 CYNTHIA'S ROOM 16
text: Bored, the nurse goes to the foot of the bad, checks the
text: chart there. She moves past MONITORING EQUIPMENT which shows
text: only subtle movement. As she begins to take Cynthia's blood
text: pressure, CAMERA CONTINUES ON INTO THE BED and we see
dialog: Cynthia,
text: She is now a fully grown young woman in her late 20's. She
text: is curled up in a fetal ball.
scene_heading: 17 THE YOUNG NURSE 17
text: finishes her work and then gathers some bottles from the side
text: table. She goes to the door and then REACTS to a SOUND.
text: She looks around, puzzled. Meanwhile, we SEE (and she
text: DOESN'T) that there is INCREASED ACTIVITY on the monitors.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (faint, weak)
dialog: No... no... it's wrong...
dialog: someone... please help...
speaker_heading: YOUNG NURSE
dialog: Holy shit...
text: Stunned, the nurse DROPS the bottles with a CRASH.
text: Recovering her composure, she darts back to the bed, watches
text: flabbergasted as Cynthia continues to STIR, her arms weakly
text: battling half-realized fears.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The young nurse hits an ALARM, grabs Cynthia's arms to
text: prevent her from pitching out of the bed, and then DOCTORS
text: and NURSES are scrambling all over the room, and as the DIN
speaker_heading: RISES we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 18 INT. HOSPITAL PRESS CONFERENCE - DAY 18
text: FLASHBULBS pop and the HOSPITAL SPOKESMAN grins clumsily,
dialog: famous for fifteen minutes.
text: There's eight or nine reporters here, all of them wishing
dialog: they were on bigger stories.
speaker_heading: SPOKESMAN
dialog: (in mid speech)
dialog: Twelve years, two months... nine
dialog: days.
speaker_heading: FIRST REPORTER
dialog: Is that like a world record for a
dialog: coma or something?
speaker_heading: SPOKESMAN
dialog: Actually, no. The longest one on
dialog: record is 37 years.
text: The first reporter closes a notebook, leaves.
speaker_heading: SECOND REPORTER
dialog: Does she remember anything about
dialog: the fire at Universe House?
scene_heading: 19 NEW ANGLE - SHOWING THE BACK OF THE ROOM 19
text: Lieutenant (née Inspector) Wasserman is there. He's grayer,
text: paunchier, but the raincoat is the same one.
speaker_heading: SPOKESMAN'S VOICE
dialog: (correcting)
dialog: Unity House. No, she appears to
dialog: have no memory of the accident
dialog: itself or the days leading up to
dialog: it. It's not uncommon after
text: serious trauma.
speaker_heading: THIRD REPORTER
dialog: What happens to her now? Have her
dialog: family or friends been notified?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SPOKESMAN
dialog: We stopped looking for any family
dialog: ton years ago.. Right now we"re
dialog: planning to transfer Cynthia to Dr.
text: S.A. Berrisford's Neuropsychiatric
dialog: Clinic. It's right here on our
text: grounds, and Dr. Berrisford is
dialog: familiar with both the
dialog: neuromuscular problems a patient
dialog: like this will encounter as well as
text: the inevitable mental readjustment
dialog: that will be required. Thank you.
text: The reporters filter out.
text: Wasserman is already gone.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 20 FOOT 20
text: as it is clumsily set down... another FOOT slides forward.
scene_heading: 21 INT. THERAPY ROOM - WIDER 21
text: Cynthia is standing inside a set of parallel bars. She's
text: pale, weak looking. A PHYSICAL THERAPIST is at her elbow,
text: egging her on.
speaker_heading: THERAPIST
dialog: Good... Very good... Come on,
dialog: just a few more steps...
text: Cynthia blinks, as if just processing the therapist's word
dialog: takes some adjustment.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (weary)
dialog: I... I can't... I have to rest...
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD'S VOICE
dialog: Young lady, you've had fifteen
dialog: years of rest.
text: CAMERA ADJUSTS to show DR. BERRISFORD. In his 50's,
text: avuncular, he wears half-framed glasses and a sweater vest
text: under his medical coat. Two pieces of tissue paper mark his
text: razor's passage on his neck.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Now walk to the end of that
dialog: platform, or you won't got any
dialog: chocolate ice cream.
text: Something about Berrisford's mock-stern tone bores in on
text: Cynthia, gets a reaction. She gropes for an answer.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (finally)
dialog: I... I hate chocolate ice cream.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Then walk to the end of the
dialog: platform, or I'll shove an entire
dialog: gallon down your throat.
text: Cynthia's eyes crinkle with confusion. And then, ah, she
dialog: gets it! A joke, the first one in over a decade. She
text: SMILES, and it's a beautiful smile. Setting her jaw, she
text: makes a renewed effort and reaches the and of the platform.
text: The therapist and Berrisford both move quickly to catch her
text: and set her down in a wheelchair.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: (to the therapist)
dialog: That'll be all.
text: Berrisford begins wheeling Cynthia along. They leave the
dialog: therapy room, go down a corridor. (Note: Passage as per
text: location.) As they go by other patients and staff, there's a
text: general BUZZ as people whisper about Cynthia.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (peering at Berrisford)
dialog: Am I supposed to know you or
dialog: something?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: I've looked in on you from time to
dialog: time... but that's hardly an
dialog: introduction. You've been
dialog: transferred into my care, Cynthia.
dialog: I*m Doctor S. A. Berrisford,
dialog: Consulting Chief of Neuropsychiatry
dialog: and head of the Berrisford Clinic.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (fumbling it)
dialog: C-consulting Cheev-- Chief of--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Oh, forget all that. Just call me
dialog: what my staff does.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: God.
text: Cynthia LAUGHS. She likes this man's directness, the way he
text: doesn't condescend to her.
scene_heading: 22 INT./EXT. SUN DECK OR DAY ROOM - DAY 22
text: Berrisford parks her and site down across from her.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: What... what kind of doctor did
dialog: you say you were?
text: Berrisford notices one of the tissues on his neck. Scowls,
text: flicks it away.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Obviously, I'm not a surgeon.
dialog: (as she laughs)
dialog: I'm a psychiatrist.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: Why do I need a psychiatrist?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Cynthia, you've been out of touch
dialog: with reality for over ten years.
dialog: Your recovery goes beyond your
dialog: muscle tone... You have to ease
dialog: into life... into interacting with
text: other people again. Into a world
dialog: that's changed so much that
dialog: sometimes I get confused by it.
dialog: (taking out an appointment
dialog: book)
dialog: Now, my assistant Dr. Goldman has a
dialog: group therapy session every day...
dialog: I'm putting you down for it,
dialog: starting tomorrow...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (unsure)
dialog: Group therapy? But--
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN'S VOICE
dialog: Dr. Berrisford?
speaker_heading: 23 NEW ANGLE 23
text: Revealing Wasserman. He shows his badge to the doctor.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: I'm Lieutenant Wasserman. I left a
dialog: message with your secretary...?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
text: (rising, meeting him
dialog: halfway)
dialog: And I left one with your desk
dialog: sergeant.
dialog: (a hard whisper)
dialog: I told you this would have to wait.
dialog: You shouldn't even be here--
scene_heading: 24 FAVORING CYNTHIA 24
text: She can't help but listen as they continue in lowered tones.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: I've waited fifteen years. That's
dialog: long enough. Now I want to speak
dialog: with Miss Weston.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
text: Miss Weston is still recovering and
dialog: is in no condition for a prolonged
dialog: interrogation.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: (tight smile)
dialog: Then don't prolong it. I'll be
dialog: brief with her, I'll be gentle with
dialog: her--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: I'll let you know when she's ready--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: E--excuse me...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: 25 ANGLE 25
text: They turn and look at her.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Doctor Berrisford, what's this all
dialog: about...? This man wants to talk
dialog: to me...?
text: Berrisford starts to answer, but Wasserman rushes in.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
text: (quietly, slowly, as if to
dialog: a child)
dialog: That's right, Miss Weston. I just
dialog: have a few easy, simple questions.
dialog: (patient, phony smile)
dialog: About you... and about Unity House.
text: Cynthia looks at him strangely, turns to Berrisford.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Why is he talking like that? Is he
dialog: one of your patients?
text: Wasserman burns. Berrisford LAUGHS.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Lieutenant Wasserman is a police
dialog: officer. And the word "patience"
dialog: isn't part of his vocabulary.
text: Wasserman scowls, not enjoying being the butt of a joke. He
text: resumes his normal tons, which is far from diplomatic.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Miss Weston. What's the last thing
dialog: you remember before...
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: --Before the accident? Nothing.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Then how do you know it was an
dialog: accident?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Lieutenant!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I remember... a beautiful sunset.
text: Harris, smiling at me...
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: (writing)
dialog: Harris, he was the leader?
text: Cynthia's eyes are far away. The memories come back... the
text: words are slow, but vivid.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Leader, founder... chief cook and
dialog: bottlewasher...
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Executive in charge of Dreaming.
dialog: We were all together... all
dialog: working to make a now world...
dialog: That last night, there was a...
dialog: (brow furrowing)
dialog: Gathering... a... a sort of...
dialog: baptism... And then...
text: She winces, rubs her eyes.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm sorry, that's all I can see.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Miss Weston. This "Unity House"...
dialog: was it a cult?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I'm sorry. I don't understand the
dialog: question.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
text: A "cult," Cynthia. A syndrome of
dialog: society you have been fortunate
dialog: enough to miss. They're popular
dialog: with impressionable people, the
dialog: penny press...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: ...and lazy policemen who like to
dialog: blame them for crimes they can't
dialog: solve.
text: Wasserman closes his notebook, gives Berrisford a cold stare.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: I was there that night, Doctor. I
dialog: watched them stack those bodies...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 17.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (4) WASSERMAN(CONT'D)
dialog: men, women, children. They looked
text: like 2,000 year old mummies. They
dialog: broke apart like 2,000 year old
text: mummies.
text: Cynthia gasps.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: If it was an accident... fine. If
dialog: it wasn't... the person
dialog: responsible could still be out
dialog: there.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: And he's probably as interested in
dialog: Miss Weston's memory as I am.
text: He turns, nods to Cynthia.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Feel better.
text: He goes out. Cynthia's breath comes in short gasps. Finally
text: she calms.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I don't like that man.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: That makes two of us.
text: He sits beside her again.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: But as long as you're here...
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I can keep him away.
text: CAMERA TIGHTENS on Cynthia as she considers this...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 26 INT. MEETING ROOM - DAY 26
text: The room is cheery, commands a view of the city. A VIDEO
text: CAMERA sits unobtrusively in one corner. Six people sit in
text: chairs in various stages of interest and/or boredom.
text: They are MIRIAM, an attractive woman in her forties, who
dialog: chain-smokes designer cigarettes;
text: CONNIE, smiling, chipper;
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: ED, overweight, friendly;
text: LANA, pale, worried looking;
text: and GILDA, tiny, frightened, withdrawn. She sits with feet
text: pulled up on her chair, arms wrapped around her knees.
text: CAMERA ADJUSTS to show Cynthia driving her electric
text: wheelchair into the room and into a place in the circle.
text: RALPH stands. Long-haired, with the staccato delivery of a
text: stand-up comic, he smiles.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Well, now that we're all here, we
dialog: can begin. Cynthia, I'm Dr.
dialog: Goldman, and I'd like to welcome
dialog: you to our little group. I don't
dialog: know how much my colleague Dr.
dialog: Berrisford has told you about my
dialog: methods. I have my detractors...
dialog: but I have my successes, too!
dialog: We're going to get you out of your
dialog: depression... We're going to got
dialog: you out of your neurosises...
dialog: We're going to got you out of that
text: hideous hospital robe and into a
text: flimsy revealing negligee--one with
dialog: the little holes here? I can see
dialog: us now on a desert island... You,
dialog: me, a portable waterbed--
text: As Cynthia's eyes widen, DR. ALAN GOLDMAN comes into the
text: room, sighs with weary familiarity at Ralph's antics.
dialog: (Actually, Alan doesn't look much more like a doctor than
dialog: Ralph.)
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Ralph, sit down and cut out the
dialog: shit, okay?
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Dr. Goldman, I was on the verge of
dialog: a major breakthrough, and you blew
dialog: it!
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Ralph?
dialog: (when he sits)
dialog: Cynthia. I'm Doctor Goldman--at
dialog: least, last time I checked...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) ALAN(CONT'D)
dialog: and I doubt if my welcome can equal
dialog: Ralph's, but I'll try. This is the
dialog: Borderline Personality Group. And
dialog: you are now a card-carrying member.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: What's a borderline personality?
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Don't ask him. He's making this up
text: as he goes along.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: A borderline personality is one
dialog: that can't be accurately placed on
dialog: the Neurosis-Psychosis arc. As a
dialog: personality syndrome it encompasses
dialog: identity crises, chemical
dialog: addictions, emotionalism, anxiety-
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: (standing, SCREAMING like
dialog: Sam Kinison)
dialog: You forgot VIOLENT MOOD SWINGS!
text: He sits, smiles sweetly.
speaker_heading: CONNIE
dialog: He also forgot suicidal tendencies.
dialog: But, as one whose previous
text: reincarnations stretch back to
dialog: Ancient Atlantis, well, suicide is
dialog: meaningless anyway.
speaker_heading: ED
dialog: And don't forgot binge eating.
dialog: (pause)
text: Gourmet binge eating.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: (sweetly, to Cynthia)
dialog: I told you he was making this up.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: If everyone is finished--
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: (breaking in)
dialog: They're not finished, Dr. Goldman,
dialog: they won't be finished until they
dialog: have her feeling as miserable and
text: pathetic and confused as they are.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I am confused--
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: See?
dialog: (to the group)
dialog: I hope you're all happy--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Dr. Goldman, I... I don't really
dialog: know what I'm doing here. I
dialog: mean... I don't think I meet your
dialog: description of a Borderline
dialog: Personality--
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Give yourself some time, Cynthia.
dialog: We'll help you work on it.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: --and I don't really know what I'm
dialog: doing here.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Didn't Dr. Berrisford explain?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: He said he thought that this would
dialog: help me... fit into the 80's.
text: Miriam CRACKS UP.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Honey, you want to fit into the
dialog: 80's, you're already two divorces,
text: one condo and a yeast infection
dialog: behind. Why don't you just catch
dialog: up with the 70's and move to
dialog: Cleveland?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: If I can offer a more practical
dialog: suggestion... Why don't you talk,
dialog: Cynthia?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Talk...?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: About something close to you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4)
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Stop beating around the fucking
dialog: bush, Goldman! Just come out and
dialog: ask her!
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: (to Miriam)
dialog: Do you have to be so crude?
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Come on, Cynthia. Dish out the
dialog: dirt. Tell us all about Unity
dialog: House.
dialog: (gesturing a marquee)
dialog: The last gasp of the Age of
dialog: Aquarius. Building a better world
dialog: through... what? Chemistry? Good
dialog: vibrations? Tie-dying your undies?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I'm sorry to disappoint you. I
dialog: don't have those kinds of stories.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Back off, Miriam. Cynthia, just
dialog: tell us about the orgies.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph, I'm going to bore you.
text: She thinks for a minute, starts to speak. She's hesitant at
text: first, and then the old memories come forward. She's
text: sincere, earnest... captivating.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: What we felt... what we
dialog: believed... was that if people
dialog: could become selfless enough, if
dialog: they could free themselves from
dialog: their egos, they would experience
dialog: a... togetherness. A... oneness.
dialog: A Unity. That's where the name
dialog: came from. We had a dream about a
dialog: perfect society based on trust. On
dialog: love. On totally committed
dialog: togetherness. We weren't trying to
dialog: change the whole world. We were
dialog: just trying to change each other.
text: Pause. Everyone is affected by her sincerity.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5)
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: (acting out)
dialog: Bullshit.
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: 27 NEW ANGLE 27
text: AS everyone turns, astonished. Gilda gets out of her chair,
text: slowly walks towards Cynthia. Takes her hand. And smiles.
speaker_heading: GILDA (CONT'D)
dialog: It's beautiful. It didn't matter
dialog: if it worked. All that mattered
dialog: was... you tried.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (touched)
dialog: Exactly!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 28 INT. BERRISFORD'S OFFICE - NIGHT 28
text: WIDEN from a TV SCREEN which shown the above moment. As the
text: group session CONTINUES UNDER, CAMERA PANS to reveal
text: Berrisford and Alan watching the tape.
speaker_heading: ALAN
text: Gilda hasn't said three words in
dialog: three weeks. And now, Cynthia
dialog: comes in with this love, peace and
dialog: Woodstock routine and... presto.
dialog: Am I missing something, or what?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: She's espousing a total belief
dialog: system. A kind of holistic healing
dialog: matrix not unlike the dynamic
dialog: energy shift model. Isn't that
dialog: interesting? They're adopting it,
text: embracing it.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Too bad we can't follow through on
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Dr. Berrisford, the people in this
dialog: group... some of them are deeply
dialog: disturbed. Cynthia doesn't belong
dialog: with them-- an experiment for one
dialog: session, fine, but in the long run--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Alan. We've opened primary
dialog: channels of communication. You've
dialog: opened them, Alan. Let's not rush
dialog: to throw away our progress.
dialog: Neuroses are hardly contagious. A
dialog: few weeks in the group won't hurt
dialog: Cynthia. With luck, she'll
dialog: overcome her memory trauma. That
dialog: would mean progress... not to
dialog: Mention getting Lieutenant
dialog: Wasserman off my back. In the
dialog: meantime...
text: He stands, puts his hand on the younger man's shoulder.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: She seems to like you. See if you
dialog: can get her to open up, and let's
dialog: press on.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: With a united front?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: A united front. Sure.
text: Satisfied, Berrisford smiles, goes out the door. Alan sighs,
text: and looks at Cynthia's image on the screen.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 29 INT. PHYSICAL THERAPY ROOM - DAY 29
dialog: Patients in different stages of fitness use the equipment,
text: some with supervision, others on their own. HETTIE,
text: Berrisford's chief nurse--a Selma Diamond type--comes in with
text: a tray of medication in paper cups. She works her way over
dialog: to where
speaker_heading: 30 CYNTHIA 30
text: is doing log lifts on a bench. She's in a leotard and leg
text: warmers, and there's real color in her face for the first
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: Drop down to first gear, honey.
dialog: It's Miller time.
text: She fumbles on her tray for the cup marked "Weston," hands
text: the pills to Cynthia along with a cup of juice.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: What are these? Vitamins?
speaker_heading: HETTIE
text: Beauty secrets from the orient.
dialog: Look what they've done for me.
text: Cynthia laughs, takes the pills. Hettie moves over to Ralph,
text: who's just finished doing bench presses.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: Ralph, you in a cooperative mood,
dialog: or do I have to tie you up again?
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Promises, promises.
text: He takes the pills she gives him, smiles. She just looks at
text: him, taps his mouth.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: Open.
text: Of course the pills are still under his tongue. Hettie gives
text: him a shot in the solar plexus and he GULPS. Hettie hands
dialog: him the juice.
speaker_heading: HETTIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Next time I hit lower.
text: She moves on to other patients. Ralph moves over to Cynthia.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: She's crazy about me.
dialog: (watching Cynthia's
dialog: workout)
dialog: You're coming along. A regular
dialog: Rocky.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Rocky? The flying squirrel?
speaker_heading: RALPH
text: Rocky the fighting Stallone.
dialog: (on her blank look)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) RALPH(CONT'D)
dialog: I keep forgetting you just left the
dialog: Twilight Zone. Hey, why don't you
dialog: come up to my room, and I'll bring
dialog: you up to date. I've got a VHS
text: VCR, a CD, and MTV.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: You're making this up... aren't
dialog: you?
text: He just grins. She slips down to the floor, does some
dialog: stretching exercises.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Sounds like a complicated world.
dialog: How do you handle it?
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Well, whenever it gets to be too
dialog: much, I just let all of the
text: negative stuff out of my body.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: You mean with meditation, yoga,
dialog: what?
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Nah. I just make a little hole and
dialog: let it all escape.
text: He pulls open his shirt. On his chest and arms are dozens of
text: scars in neat little rows.
text: Cynthia swallows, stunned. Nonplussed, Ralph buttons back
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: RALPH (CONT'D)
dialog: Uh-uh, here comes the assistant
dialog: Ayatollah. See ya.
text: As Ralph exits, Cynthia looks around, puzzled.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: "Ay-a-toll-ah..?"
text: Then she sees Alan.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Buy you some lunch?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
text: He starts to help her up. She pushes him off gets up with a
dialog: theatrical hop.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I'm impressed.
text: They walk out of the therapy room.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Impressed enough to call me a cab?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I'm not sure I follow you.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I've been talking to Ralph. He
dialog: told me about his... personal
dialog: therapy program.
dialog: (as Alan winces)
dialog: And I've been watching the
dialog: others... Dr. Goldman, they belong
dialog: here. I don't.
scene_heading: 31 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 31
text: They pass Lana and Miriam who are swallowing medication from
text: Hettie's tray. The two women patients wave at Cynthia, who
text: smiles.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (as they walk)
dialog: Please, call me Alan. Doctor
dialog: Goldman is my father...
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: ...and my grandfather. I think my
dialog: first baby toy was a stethoscope--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: You're changing the subject...
dialog: (trying it out)
dialog: --Alan. I'm feeling stronger. I'm
dialog: getting used to things like VC
dialog: esses and MCDs. I want to leave.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (carefully)
dialog: Your parents died when you were a
dialog: child. We haven't been able to
dialog: locate any relatives.
text: He stops at the elevator doors, hits the button.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Where would you go?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I guess I'd just look up some of
dialog: the old hands from Unity House...
dialog: crash with them for a while...
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: ...do people still say "crash"--?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia...
dialog: (gently)
dialog: There aren't any old hands left.
dialog: The fire that injured you...? It
dialog: took everyone also with it.
dialog: They're all gone.
text: Cynthia reacts as if struck... has to loan against the wall
text: to catch her breath.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I knew there were deaths... but...
dialog: everybody?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I'm afraid so. Look, Cynthia...
dialog: I'm not saying this to upset you,
dialog: but the sooner you realize that
dialog: that whole phase of your life is
dialog: over, and move on, the better off
dialog: you're going to be. Why don't you
dialog: bring this into the open... talk
dialog: about it in group? Oh, here's our
dialog: ride.
text: Saying this, he turns as an elevator OPENS. It's pretty
text: crowded. He holds the door for her.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Talk about it...?
text: Seeing he's waiting, she straightens, moves into the
dialog: elevator.
scene_heading: 32 INT. ELEVATOR - DAY 32
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Could somebody hit one? Thanks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (to him)
dialog: "Talk about it in group." Is that
dialog: the answer to everything around
dialog: here?
text: The doors CLOSE. Everyone huddles in the compact space
text: silently, politely. The elevator heaves into movement. It
text: HUMS as it whisks down the shaft.
text: The overhead fluorescent light in the car is weak. It
text: flickers off and on momentarily.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Nobody ever said it would be easy.
dialog: And it works for a lot of people.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (gently)
dialog: It's not working for Ralph... or
text: his chest.
dialog: (pleading tone)
dialog: Can't you at least transfer me...
dialog: get me in a group of people with
dialog: problems a little more like mine--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia, we don't have a lot of
dialog: patients who've been in a coma for
dialog: over a decade!
text: The light gets weaker. Finally it just goes out. There is a
text: general SIGH of annoyance from the passengers.
text: The light FLICKERS on every few seconds giving off the effect
text: of a strobe light.
speaker_heading: A PASSENGER
dialog: You'd think with what they charge
dialog: here they could pay their electric
dialog: bills
scene_heading: LAUGHTER.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Relax. They're probably giving
dialog: shock therapy.
dialog: (for Alan's benefit)
dialog: "It works for most people".
text: More LAUGHTER. Then Cynthia is RIVETED by the sight of
text: something across the elevator.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
text: In the LIGHT of the next strobe like FLASH, we see HARRIS!
text: He is staring at Cynthia.
scene_heading: 33 ON CYNTHIA 33
text: Staggered, disbelievingly, she moves behind Alan, looks over
text: to the far corner again.
text: Another FLASH. Harris is gone. Suddenly the ELEVATOR JERKS
text: TO A HALT, but the doors DON'T OPEN. Passengers GROAN,
dialog: annoyed.
speaker_heading: PASSENGER
dialog: Oh, great--
text: The emergency BELL starts sounding. Cynthia, still confused,
text: gets shoved against the back wall as the passengers busy
text: themselves pushing buttons.
text: Cynthia bumps into the man next to her. She looks up at him.
text: FLASH. It is Harris.
text: FLASH. Harris reaches out to Cynthia. She CRIES OUT, jerks
text: away, slamming into Alan, falling to the floor.
speaker_heading: PASSENGER (CONT'D)
dialog: Jesus, lady, relax! We're on the
dialog: ground floor--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Let me out! Let me out--!
text: FLASH. Cynthia is on the floor. She raises her head.
text: Someone is on the floor right across from her.
text: FLASH. It's Harris. His face is burned and skeletal. He
speaker_heading: GRINS.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: Unity, Cynthia... Now and forever!
text: He has no eyelids or lips. Cynthia SCREAMS, struggles to her
text: feet, knocking over another passenger. Now it's chaos in
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Let me out, let me out! Alan,
dialog: help, help--!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: Cynthia, you cannot run... You
dialog: belong to us Forever--!
speaker_heading: 34 ALAN 34
text: Struggles across the crowded elevator, catches her in his
dialog: arms.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia..?
text: The elevator doors suddenly OPEN.
scene_heading: 35 INT. FIRST FLOOR CORRIDOR - DAY 35
text: Cynthia literally TUMBLES out of the elevator, staggers along
text: the wall, holding herself up. Alan runs out to aid her. The
text: passengers get off the elevator, looking at her oddly. A
text: CUSTODIAN runs up and turns off the alarm.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia, what happened--?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: It's him! It's him! He's alive--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Who's alive?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: He's alive! Right over--
text: She stops. The elevator is open and empty. The passengers
text: watch her, some concerned, some voyeuristic. Now they drift
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: --there...
text: Alan just stares at her.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 36 INT. BERRISFORD'S OFFICE - NIGHT 36
text: Berrisford sits, listens intently to Alan.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: --hallucination, flashback, I don't
dialog: know what to call it-
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: How about psychotic episode?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: No, no, she doesn't fit the
dialog: pattern--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Addictive personalities can be
dialog: borderline. You know that--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (patiently)
dialog: She has no history of drug abuse--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: There's other kinds of addictions.
dialog: (standing, pensive)
dialog: we see it in these fringe religious
dialog: groups... these instant creeds
text: with pseudo-Messianic delusions.
dialog: You've heard how she talks about
dialog: Unity House? Perhaps that's her
dialog: drug. Perhaps she's going through
dialog: a--withdrawal of sorts. Her memory
dialog: lapses about Unity House are
dialog: equally symptomatic... There's
dialog: some violent turmoil under that
dialog: pretty little facade.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (skeptical)
dialog: You put her in the Borderline Group
dialog: and she became one?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: No.
text: CAMERA TIGHTENS ON HIM.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: I believe she went into that coma
text: a disturbed young lady. Fifteen
dialog: years later... nothing has
dialog: changed.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 32.
scene_heading: 37 INT. ENTRANCE - BERRISFORD CLINIC WING - NIGHT 37
text: We can read the name on the locked security door (albeit
text: backwards.) A SECURITY GUARD watches a basketball game on a
text: portable set.
scene_heading: 38 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 38
text: This is not the room we saw when she was comatose, but a
text: brighter, more residential arrangement. Cynthia sits on the
text: bed, watches as Hettie counts out pills for her. Cynthia
text: swallows them, hesitates at a red one.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: This one's new.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: It'll help you sleep.
dialog: (explaining)
dialog: Sort of a post-elevator cocktail?
text: Cynthia scowls, takes it. Hettie goes out. Cynthia lies
text: down on the bed, stiff. Turns over once or twice. Sighing,
text: she picks up the TV remote, shakes her head at the myriad
text: buttons. Finally she finds the right one, CLICKS IT.
scene_heading: 39 TV - HER P.O.V. 39
text: She's come in on the middle of a group therapy scene from THE
scene_heading: BOB NEWHART SHOW. (NOTE: Or maybe THE SNAKE PIT or SHOCK
speaker_heading: CORRIDOR?)
dialog: 40 BACK TO SCENE 40
text: She watches until she realizes what it is, then CLICKS it
dialog: off.
scene_heading: 41 INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT 41
text: Hettie leans over the security guard's desk. The guard
text: GROANS in frustration an the basketball game ends.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: (extending her hand)
dialog: Pay up. Twenty bucks.
text: Neither notices a DARK FIGURE passing by close to the CAMERA.
dialog: 33.
scene_heading: 42 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 42
text: Cynthia lies restlessly in her bed. She hears footsteps
text: coming closer. They stop at her door. She looks over.
text: There is a SHADOW moving in the crack under the door. The
text: doorknob TURNS. Cynthia sits up.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Who's there?
text: She reaches for the button to call the nurse, but then the
text: door is OPEN, and the figure stands there silhouetted.
speaker_heading: FIGURE
dialog: (whisper)
dialog: Cynthia?
text: The figure comes forward. Cynthia backs off the other side
text: of the bed and turns on a light.
text: It is Victor, the boy we remember from the opening scene.
text: The years have been kind to him. He stands there, the dim
text: light spilling on his Army field jacket and bell-bottomed
dialog: jeans.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Cynthia? It's me. Victor.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: Vic? Oh, my God--
text: She practically leaps across the room, hugs him with all her
dialog: strength.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Look at you.
dialog: (marveling)
dialog: Little Cyn.
dialog: (impressed)
dialog: Not so little anymore.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Vic, this is just... fantastic,
dialog: it's the most incredible...
dialog: (hesitating)
dialog: But... how can you be here?
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Yeah. It is after visiting hours--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I mean... they said that... that
dialog: everybody died.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Do I look like a ghost to you?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (rapid-fire)
dialog: How did you survive? How did you
dialog: find me? Is anyone else--
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Whoa, whoa. It's a long story...
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Let me tell it somewhere else. I
dialog: feel like I'm in, like, the
dialog: Pentagon or something.
text: Cynthia grins, grabs a light jacket.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Then let's go AWOL.
scene_heading: 43 INT. HALLWAY 43
text: Victor peeks out the door. An orderly passes, then
text: disappears. Victor and Cynthia tiptoe out, sprint down the
text: corridor to a stairwell marked "EXIT", and they are gone.
scene_heading: 44 EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 44
text: Victor takes her hand, and they run towards a battered VW
dialog: van. We recognize it and its slogans.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Zeke! You've still got Zeke!
text: She runs her hand along the dusty side lovingly, and then
text: they hop inside.
scene_heading: 45 ON THE REAR LICENSE PLATE 45
text: Rusted, dated 1973. The van DRIVES AWAY.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 35.
scene_heading: 46 EXT. VICTOR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 46
text: It's a tacky but cozy building, circa 1958. "Zeke" pulls up,
text: rattling to a coughing halt. They get out, head up the
dialog: steps.
scene_heading: 47 INT. VICTOR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 47
text: They come in, turning on lights. It's a dingy couple of
text: rooms, but lush with its variety of objects. Everything
text: looks like it came from the Age of Aquarius: beanbag
text: furniture, paper "Tiffany" shades on hanging lights,
text: blacklight posters, hanging macrame planters.
dialog: Cynthia loves the room and everything in it. But she is
text: particularly drawn to a canvas on an easel in the far corner.
scene_heading: 48 PAINTING - HER POV 48
text: It's of her, sitting serenely in a meadow, the Unity House
text: perched prominently on a hill in the distance. (In the
text: doorway, the bare-chested FIGURE of a man may--or may not--be
text: barely visible.) Cynthia's clothes in the painting are the
text: ones she wore in the opening scene.
text: But her face is that of today's Cynthia.
scene_heading: 49 BACK TO SCENE 49
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: I... did it by memory. I tried to
dialog: imagine... what you'd... look
dialog: like today. Guess I came pretty
dialog: close.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: It's beautiful. More beautiful
dialog: than I ever was.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Then you need a new mirror.
text: she smiles, flattered. Suddenly a CAT jumps up on a crate.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: That's Chairman Meow.
text: Cynthia picks him up. Victor takes out a bottle of tequila
text: and two glasses.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: You still haven't told me how you
dialog: lived. I really can't remember
dialog: anything about the... accident.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: It wasn't an accident.
text: She stiffens. His eyes are far away.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: A lot of people back then, they
dialog: hated Unity House. Hated Harris
dialog: and his dreams... dreams of
dialog: peace... of oneness. That hate
dialog: fed negative energy into the cosmic
dialog: vortex... Something bad was bound
dialog: to happen. That hate was so
dialog: strong... so envious of what we
dialog: had...
text: He has SQUEEZED the shot glass in his hand so hard that it
text: EXPLODES. Cynthia JUMPS, and that's when he notices it.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: (very normal)
dialog: Oh, fuck--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: You've cut yourself--
text: She comes over, binds his hand with a dishcloth. He holds
text: onto her.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: I guess talking about the past can
dialog: be a little dangerous.
text: He pours a shot into the remaining glass.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Let's drink to the present.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: To us.
text: He SIPS. Passes the glass to her.
speaker_heading: 50 CYNTHIA 50
text: She hesitates... smiles. Drinks.
text: There is a drop of blood in the glass. She doesn't see it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: To us.
scene_heading: 51 BACK TO SCENE 51
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: To... Unity.
text: He pulls her close. They KISS... she seems to malt in his
text: grasp. The cat jumps down. Slowly they kiss and touch each
text: other. They stop and stare into each other's eyes.
text: He moves his hand over her shoulders, neck, through her hair.
text: She is completely his.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 52 INT. BEDROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT 52
text: Half a dozen candles illuminate the room.
text: Cynthia and Victor are making love. Not violent, but slow,
text: passionate, dreamlike. They are completely enjoying each
text: other. The satisfaction seems spiritual. They stare into
text: each other's eyes the entire time. They are lost.
text: Gradually Victor's rhythm builds. As his momentum increases,
text: as the ecstasy nears, Cynthia accelerates too. Heaving,
text: gasping, they are approaching a beautiful climax.
text: But just when it seems Victor is on the verge, the very
text: threshold, he stops and JUMPS violently out of bed.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Oh Jesus!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Victor?
text: Victor paces around the room, practically bouncing off the
dialog: walls.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Oh, my God. I can't believe it.
dialog: What a great idea...! Too amazing!
dialog: Too amazing!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Is something wrong?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Not wrong, Cynthia...right! The
dialog: most right thing in the world!
text: He goes to his closet and pulls out a shoe box. He holds it
text: with a coy expression, like a kid hiding a frog. Cynthia's
text: annoyance with the break in mood fades in light of his
text: exuberance. Their tone with each other remains loving,
dialog: kidding.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Are you going to tell me your
dialog: little secret, or should I just got
dialog: dressed?
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: I'm sorry, Cyn, but I just got the
dialog: most incredible idea. It's
dialog: absolutely beautiful! Do you want
dialog: to know what it is?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: Yes!
text: He sits on the bad.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: I was just thinking about what we
dialog: were doing here together...
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I should hope so...
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Wouldn't it be incredible if, right
dialog: at the perfect moment right when
dialog: we're coming, if we did it?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Did what?
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: What we were meant to do, of
dialog: course.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: ...meant to do...?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: That sunset. That last night. At
dialog: Unity House. Remember?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No... No, Victor, I don't...
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: (distant)
dialog: They all got to go. You and me...
dialog: we got left behind... while they
dialog: went on.
dialog: (chuckling)
dialog: Guess that's why they say life
dialog: ain't fair. Well...
text: He opens the box. Inside it are TWO PISTOLS.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: --we can fix that.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (stiffening)
dialog: My God, Victor! Put those away--
text: He ignores her, checks the cylinder on the revolver, the clip
text: on the automatic.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: This is so great! I mean, I've
dialog: been living with all this shit,
dialog: thinking about you, searching...
dialog: going nowhere. And you, hell, you
dialog: don't fit in with Ralph and Miriam,
dialog: those other flakes... Berrisford
dialog: and Goldman, they're a waste of
dialog: time--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: H-how do you know about them? I
dialog: never--
text: He SLAMS the clip home, CLOSES the cylinder.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Yeah. We had the answers, way back
dialog: then. Unity. Unity, now and
dialog: forever. Cynthia, this is our
dialog: second chance!
text: She shrinks away from him on the bed. He bounces closer like
text: a kid at a pajama party, holds out one of the pistols.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay, you do me, and I'll do you--
dialog: but wait until I say go! Hey, get
dialog: rid of the sheet... Let me see
dialog: that grown up body...
text: He grins, puts the gun to her head and gets an top of her.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No, Vic. Please. Please! I don't
dialog: want to do this!
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Yes, you do. You know you do.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No!
text: He's holding her down. He's getting into it.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Oh, Cynthia, it's so beautiful.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: God, God, no--
speaker_heading: VICTOR
text: We're on the edge of space and
dialog: time.
text: He spreads her legs under the sheets. She's struggling
text: against him, but it's no use. He's too strong. He's coming
dialog: closer.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, good... good... ummm...
dialog: ummm...
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Cynthia, it's happening. Put the
dialog: gun to my head.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Jesus, Vic, no!
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Yeah, oh yeah... oh, YEAH--
text: A SHOT sounds. She SCREAMS--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 41.
scene_heading: 53 INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 53
text: Cynthia BOLTS up out of bed.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No!
text: The candles are out. Victor isn't in the room.
text: Cynthia, drenched with sweat, slowly catches her breath. She
text: looks around, confused.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Vic?
text: She goes into the other room.
scene_heading: 54 INT. LIVING ROOM 54
text: No Vic. It is dark except for a FIRE in the fireplace. The
text: flames REFLECT oddly on the slick surface of the oil painting
dialog: of Unity House.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Vic?
text: She checks in the kitchen. Nothing. She looks back in the
text: bedroom. The apartment is empty.
text: She's just calming when--MEEOW! The CAT LEAPS out of
text: nowhere, startling her, and then running out of sight.
text: She swallows. Very nervous now, she sits on the couch and
text: starts pulling on her jeans and shoes. The CAMERA MOVES
text: AROUND her, revealing the entire apartment. We see EVERY
text: ANGLE. It is completely quiet and still. The CAMERA SETTLES
text: at one ANGLE on Cynthia. A shadow behind her MOVES.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Where are you going?
text: Cynthia JUMPS from fright.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Jesus, Vic. I thought you... left.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Me? Leave you all alone?
text: He pulls her into his arms. She hesitates.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Vic? Vic, are you... happy?
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: That...
dialog: (kissing her)
dialog: ...has to be..
dialog: (kissing again)
dialog: ...the stupidest question I ever
dialog: heard...
text: He keeps kissing, caressing.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I mean... with... life. With...
dialog: being alive.
text: He looks at her oddly.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (relaxing)
dialog: Never mind... I had this...
dialog: bizarre dream...
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Welcome to reality.
text: He touches her soft face. He runs his hands down her neck.
text: They kiss again, she now completely without reservation.
text: Their embrace is so all-encompassing that, when she opens her
text: eyes, it's only then that she SEES
speaker_heading: 55 CLOSER 55
text: She is kissing a BURNED AND SCARRED FACE WITH ONLY CLUMPS OF
text: PUPPY BLACK MUSCLE HANGING ON THE BONE. It is Harris' face,
text: the face we saw in the elevator. Cynthia GASPS, fumbles
text: backwards off of the sofa.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: What's the matter?
text: She looks back up at him. He's Victor again, normal again.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Cynthia?
text: She knocks over a tequila bottle. It's spilled all over the
text: floor. She is speechless. He picks the bottle up.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Why did you pull away?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I... I think I'd better go.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Why?
text: She's over by the door. Victor comes and presses against it
dialog: so she can't get out.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Please let me out.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: I don't understand... What did I
dialog: do?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Nothing. It's not you, it... it's
dialog: me. I just want to go.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: You know, maybe you belong in that
dialog: clinic, because this, this is
dialog: crazy! We were having a good time--
dialog: (on her look)
dialog: I'm sorry. Look, what we were
dialog: feeling... it was special.
dialog: She softens--
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: --it was Unity.
dialog: (distantly)
dialog: Unity, Now and through Eternity...
dialog: Cynthia, you cannot run...
text: That does it. Pale, she scrabbles at the doorknob, opens it,
text: runs out.
speaker_heading: VICTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: You cannot run... You belong to us
dialog: Forever--!
scene_heading: 56 EXT. STREET - NIGHT 56
text: She runs out of the building, past "Zeke." She looks back.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: 57 THE APARTMENT--HER POV 57
text: Victor is in the window waving, firelight dancing behind him.
text: The reflection on the glass makes the painting on the wall
dialog: look totally aflame.
scene_heading: ETHEREAL SITAR MUSIC UP OVER THE FOLLOWING SEQUENCE:
scene_heading: 58 EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 58
text: Cynthia has her thumb out as the cars whizz by. One stops.
scene_heading: 59 INT. CAR - NIGHT 59
text: A sweaty-looking DRIVER eyes Cynthia. She just looks off,
text: depressed and afraid.
scene_heading: 60 EXT. PARKING LOT - DAWN 60
text: She gets out of the car and goes in the main entrance.
scene_heading: 61 INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAWN 61
text: She makes her way to her room looking tired, distraught.
scene_heading: 62 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - DAY 62
text: She lies on her bed, exhausted, trying to sleep. She can't.
text: She gets out of bad.
scene_heading: 63 INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY 63
text: She's looking for an office. She goes in one marked Dr.
text: Goldman. He looks up from his coffee, sees her ashen
text: expression... pulls out a chair. Listens as the words
text: tumble out. His expression changes... to skepticism... and
text: then, as she breaks down SOBBING, to concern. He holds
dialog: her... thinks...
text: ...reaches for his car keys.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 45.
scene_heading: 64 INT. ALAN'S CAR - DAY 64
text: They are travelling along the highway. Cynthia POINTS. He
text: turns onto another street.
scene_heading: 65 EXT. VICTOR'S APARTMENT - DAY 65
text: They pull up in front, park. Go inside.
text: CAMERA LINGERS long enough for us to notice a puddle from an
text: OIL LEAK exactly where "Zeke" was parked.
text: THE MUSIC FADES OUT.
scene_heading: 66 INT. APARTMENT CORRIDOR - DAY 66
text: The MANAGER, a fat woman in a muumuu, waddles ahead of them,
text: a huge keychain CLINKING with each of her steps.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Apartment 2-B, right?
text: Alan looks at Cynthia.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Right.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: 2B or not 2B, that is the question.
text: She chuckles at her own wit, arrives at the door. Opens it.
scene_heading: 67 INT. APARTMENT - DAY 67
text: They step inside. The place is completely bare. No
text: furniture. Nothing. Cynthia is stunned.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: B..but... it... it's empty!
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Of course it is. I don't show
dialog: rented apartments. Anyway, what
dialog: you see is what you get... one
dialog: bedroom, gas range, yadda yadda
dialog: yadda.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: MANAGER(CONT'D)
dialog: Supposed to be six months minimum,
dialog: but you seem like nice kids, so if
dialog: you want a month to month, we can
dialog: work it out.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: This... this is impossible...
dialog: Alan, I was here... He was here-
text: Cynthia is staggering around the room, looking everywhere.
text: She stares long and hard at a DUST-FREE rectangle where the
dialog: painting...
dialog: ...might have been.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (to the manager)
dialog: How long has this place been
dialog: vacant?
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: 'Bout six weeks. Couple a
dialog: deadbeats... their damn kids tore
dialog: the hell out of it, too--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Alan, I don't care what she says,
dialog: this is it! Look, look--
dialog: (pointing)
text: There's a double-door closet in
text: there on the left.
text: Alan goes in.
scene_heading: 68 INT. BEDROOM - DAY 68
text: Alan looks and sees the closet as she described it.
scene_heading: 69 INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 69
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (as he comes back out)
dialog: Well?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia, a double closet isn't
dialog: exactly a positive I.D.--
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: What are you two talking about? You
dialog: wanna rent, or what?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Cynthia looks around, suddenly points to a stain on the rug,
text: triumphant.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: There! There, look--that's where I
dialog: spilled the tequila...
dialog: (on her knees, desperate)
dialog: See? See? It's still wet!
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: (apologetic)
dialog: Hon, I think that's from the
dialog: ceiling...
text: CAMERA TILTS UP. There is, indeed, a corresponding damp spot
text: directly above the one on the rug. As we WATCH a DRIP plops
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: MANAGER (CONT'D)
dialog: ...damn plumber was supposed to fix
dialog: it last week.
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: So! We in business?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 70 INT. BERRISFORD'S OFFICE - DAY 70
text: Wasserman SLAMS his hand down on the desk, furious. Cynthia
text: JUMPS, squeezes Alan's hand. Berrisford sits quietly, leans
text: forward and picks up the pan holder Wasserman has displaced.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Twelve hours! You wait twelve
dialog: hours to tell me about this? Am I
dialog: supposed to be grateful for your
dialog: civic-mindedness? I told you the
dialog: Unity House case was still open--
dialog: (pointing at Cynthia)
dialog: --and she's the only lead. You
dialog: should have called me the minute
dialog: you found out--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: Found out what? Lieutenant, if I
dialog: called the police every time one of
dialog: my patients experienced a fantasy
dialog: or a delusion, you'd have to move
dialog: in here--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (sharp, stepping forward)
dialog: It was not a delusion! Victor
dialog: Lunes was here--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
text: The security guard didn't see
dialog: anyone--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Then the security guard needs
dialog: glasses! Alan, tell them--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (on the spot)
dialog: The apartment did match her general
dialog: description--
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
text: --a one bedroom flat with a beige
dialog: rug... that's rather... generic.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: --Victor isn't generic--
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Victor is dead! Dead for fifteen
dialog: years--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: --you've seen his body?
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: --it was burned beyond recognition--
dialog: but there was I.D.--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I knew it--I knew it-
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia. Look... we've all done
text: it... tumbled out of bed positive
dialog: that we've just lived something
dialog: that was only a dream--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (firmly)
dialog: Damn it, it wasn't a dream--I was
dialog: out there--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: No one's denying you flow the coop,
dialog: Miss Weston... You wanna prove the
dialog: rest? Lemme get a policewoman to
text: stand by while a gynecologist
dialog: checks out your plumbing. We'll
dialog: see soon enough if your ghost left
dialog: a calling card--
text: Cynthia hauls off and gives Wasserman a tremendous SLAP.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: You bastard.
text: She goes to the door, looks at the doctors.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: You...
dialog: (searching)
dialog: --experts!
text: She goes out, SLAMS the door. Wasserman rubs his jaw, checks
text: his mouth.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Wonderful! Wonderful! I've been
text: waiting and waiting for her to
dialog: finally show real anger--real
dialog: emotion! This could be a
dialog: breakthrough!
dialog: (sincere)
dialog: Thank you, Lieutenant.
text: Wasserman holds a filling in his fingertips.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Hey. Anytime.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THERAPY ROOM - DAY
text: CAMERA PANS past a row of PILLOWS. We WIDEN, see that each
text: member of the group has a big pillow in front of them.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Okay. First off, we're all going
dialog: to feel a little silly and maybe
dialog: look a little silly...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: (a la Groucho)
dialog: Especially in that shirt you're
dialog: wearing, Goldman...
scene_heading: 70A NEW ANGLE - FAVORING CYNTHIA 70A
text: She sits, looking very distracted. As Alan continues
text: speaking, he occasionally looks at her, but--to her relief--
text: deliberately doesn't single her out.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (amused, but pushing on)
dialog: --but this technique works, and
dialog: we're going to release some of our
dialog: hidden aggression. Who's going to
dialog: go first? Lana?
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: (pause)
dialog: How many helpless goose had to die
dialog: to fill those stupid pillows?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (as everyone groans)
dialog: None, Lana. They're polyester.
dialog: Ed? Want to start?
speaker_heading: ED
dialog: Nah. Let's talk about the geese
dialog: again. Nice fat ones, with all the
dialog: trimmings--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: All right, how about if we all
dialog: start together and eliminate the
dialog: wimp factor. Come on.
text: He starts POUNDING his pillow with a steady beat. Gradually,
text: self-consciously, the others JOIN in except for Cynthia.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
text: (standing, walking around
dialog: the circle)
dialog: Okay. What are we feeling?
speaker_heading: CONNIE
dialog: (as she pounds)
dialog: We used to do something like this
text: in the royal palace in Atlantis.
dialog: But we used bags of dried kelp.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Your brain is a bag of dried kelp--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (chiding)
dialog: Ralph. Miriam?
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: (pounding)
dialog: I'm pretending this is my first
dialog: husband... No, maybe my third...
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: Can I have a baseball bat?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Please, people, let's work at being
dialog: serious.
text: He moves behind Cynthia, who's still unmoving. Leans close,
dialog: whispers.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I know you had a rough night. But
dialog: you have to participate.
text: She sighs, starts to pound the pillow. At first she's very
text: distracted, but then she gets into an unconscious rhythm...
scene_heading: 70B GROUP - QUICK SHOTS 70B
text: All of them are finally and legitimately exorcising personal
dialog: demons.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay, that's better. Now let's
dialog: hear some emotion. Let it out.
dialog: yell! Scream!
text: Miriam gives a very theatrical scream. There's some
text: laughter, but others try, too. Gilda begins to give little
text: angry yelps. Ralph is really punching some ancient enemy.
text: Connie does a respectable if modest SCREAM. Ed SNARLS with
dialog: more anger than we'd expect.
speaker_heading: 70B CYNTHIA 70B
text: begins hitting the pillow with growing strength. Her eyes
text: are far away. She begins to BREATHE HEAVILY. CAMERA
text: TIGHTENS ON HER. She closes her eyes. When she opens them,
dialog: she REACTS TO--
dialog: 52.
scene_heading: 75 INT. UNITY HOUSE COMMON ROOM - NIGHT 75
dialog: The scene in exactly like the first time we saw this room
text: with one difference: the hospital Group Therapy crowd sits in
text: the room. They are oblivious to the change around them. Now
text: their pounding gradually UNIFIES, becomes a background voodoo-
text: like DRUMMING.
text: Cynthia is speechless. She looks at then in amazement, but
text: none of them notice her. Suddenly she sees
speaker_heading: 75A HARRIS 75A
text: He's across from her, SMILING. Again, he sleeks back his
text: hair in that amber liquid.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: You failed me, Cynthia... You
dialog: failed all of us...
text: Harris holds a wooden match. With it he presses back a
text: fingernail. It snaps off and bleeds. Harris watches
dialog: Cynthia.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: We were supposed to be together...
dialog: in this world... and in the next...
text: CAMERA WIDENS to take in the cistern of liquid. We SEE the
text: dripping wet Unity members.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: It was going to be perfect, all of
dialog: us taking the same journey... You
dialog: shouldn't have run. You made us
dialog: wait for you while you slept...
dialog: all those years.
text: He presses back another nail SNAP. CAMERA WIDENS FURTHER.
text: Now we see something we didn't see before: a dozen or so
scene_heading: PLASTIC JERRY CANS marked "GASOLINE--DANGER--PLAMMABLE."
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: The waiting time is over, my
dialog: lovechild. It's time for you to
dialog: join us. In Unity...
text: Another. SNAP. Hands and faces everywhere are soaked. They
speaker_heading: DRIP.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: In death. You know you want it.
text: SNAP. Drip.
speaker_heading: 75B CYNTHIA 75B
text: Her throat muscles constrict, but she can't speak. She looks
text: over at Alan, who seems not to see any of this. Now, eyes
text: widening in horror, Cynthia LOOKS DOWN and sees a POOL OF
text: GASOLINE SPREADING TOWARDS HER. It washes against the
text: pillow, her knees.
scene_heading: 75C BACK TO SCENE 75C
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: You know we're your family...
text: SNAP. Drip.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: ...You have no choice...
text: He takes the match and strikes it through the pile of nails.
text: The nails scatter.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: ...Come to us, Cynthia. It's time
dialog: to die. Don't lot another take
dialog: your place. Come to us... now.
text: The match is lit. He throws it off.
scene_heading: 76 SLOW MOTION 76
text: It FALLS through the air. Lands on the soaked carpet. An
text: EXPLOSION of flames. They RUSH TOWARDS CYNTHIA--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
text: NOOOOOOOOO--!
text: It is a blood-curdling and heart-stopping a scream as ever
dialog: heard.
text: There is a FLASH of light.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 54.
scene_heading: 77 INT. THERAPY ROOM - DAY 77
text: Cynthia's SCREAM trails off as she THROWS herself back from
dialog: the pillow.
text: The Unity House Members and Harris are all gone.
text: The group therapy people all turn to her in amazement.
speaker_heading: 77A MIRIAM 77A
text: Open mouthed, she DROPS the match she's holding to light a
text: cigarette. It SIZZLES on the rug. Alan STOMPS it out,
text: rushes over to Cynthia, who SAGS in his arms,
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 77B INT. ALAN'S OFFICE - DAY 77B
text: Cynthia sits in a crumpled sprawl in Alan's office. The room
text: is decorated in comforting tones, with Sierra Club posters
text: and outdoors-y souvenirs. The late afternoon sun steams in
text: through the partially closed blinds.
text: Alan sits beside Cynthia on the couch, concerned. Berrisford
text: sucks on his pipe, makes notes.
text: Wasserman, rocking on the legs of his chair, jots in his own
dialog: little notebook.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (softly, tense)
dialog: ...They... they sang songs as they
text: stacked up the white containers...
dialog: they were... happy. Because it
dialog: was going to be their break with
dialog: the world... a world that didn't
dialog: understand them. I don't remember
dialog: if they took a vote or if Harris
dialog: just... decided. But they all
dialog: agreed. They were... happy...
text: smiling... laughing... crying from
text: happiness as he drenched them in
dialog: the gasoline...
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: --Jesus--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Somehow, I... I knew it was
dialog: wrong... I ran... When he threw
dialog: the match, I was at the other end
dialog: of the hallway... There was a
dialog: flash... and a... like a wind, or
dialog: the hand of God--picked me up,
dialog: threw me... The ceiling fell in...
dialog: When I opened my eyes...
dialog: (she looks up)
dialog: I was here.
text: Hettie appears in the doorway, tray in hand, raises her
text: eyebrows inquisitively at Alan. Alan nods immediately: Hell,
text: yes. Hettie comes in, gives Cynthia her medication.
text: Wasserman closes his book, looks thoughtful.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (to Wasserman)
dialog: If that's what happened, why didn't
dialog: you find any evidence of arson?
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: The plastic jerry cans would've
dialog: burned up before anything else...
dialog: We knew there'd been an
dialog: explosion... We just didn't know
dialog: how or why.
text: Berrisford stands, approaches Wasserman as the police officer
text: closes his book, moves to the doorway.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Well. You must be pleased.
dialog: Closing a case after... what is it,
dialog: twelve years?
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Who says it's closed?
text: The medical people look at him. Cynthia's thoughts are
dialog: elsewhere.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: What's that supposed to mean?
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: When the fairy princess here woke
dialog: up, she said she didn't remember
dialog: anything about 32 deaths. Now she
dialog: remembers they committed suicide...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) WASSERMAN(CONT'D)
dialog: but she, of course, was innocent.
dialog: Who knows what she'll remember
dialog: tomorrow? Running for help... or
dialog: pouring gasoline on the fire?
text: He goes out.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: That man's a candidate for shock
dialog: therapy... with a car battery
dialog: right to the cojones.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No... he's right. I am guilty.
text: They look at her, startled.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm guilty of lying... to Unity
dialog: House. I promised to be part of
dialog: it... Forever. They expected me
dialog: to keep my word.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: They still do.
text: She stands, goes out. Alan and Hettie look worried.
text: Berrisford looks... unsurprised. He turns to Alan.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Well, Alan. Still think she
dialog: doesn't belong in the group?
text: Alan just looks at him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 80 INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY 80
text: Cynthia, in her bathrobe, wanders out of the shower in
text: between the dark, steamy rows of lockers. She passes Lana
text: and Miriam. Miriam is dressing, and Lana is putting on a
dialog: swimsuit.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Nothing like a hot shower, huh?
text: Cynthia doesn't hear or see them. She settles on the far end
text: of the bench. She sits there blankly. Lana nears, with
text: great trepidation.
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: Cynthia? Cynthia? Are you okay?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Cynthia looks up.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: Are you all right? After that
dialog: session today, I--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I'm fine.
text: Cynthia starts to dress, ignoring Lana. Lana stands there
text: for a moment, very awkwardly.
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: I think... you're a decent
dialog: person... not a... mean spirited
dialog: witch like some people...
text: She thrown a look at Miriam, who just smiles pleasantly.
speaker_heading: LANA (CONT'D)
dialog: --and, well, if you need a friend
dialog: here...
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (distant tone)
dialog: All my friends are dead.
text: Rattled, Lana backs off, on the verge of tears, rushing past
text: Miriam, who has observed all this.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Lana, wait a minute, she didn't
dialog: mean it--shit.
text: Miriam closes her locker and comes over to Cynthia.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: I know Lana's a mealy-mouthed
dialog: little prude, but she means well.
dialog: I probably pull her chain too
text: much... She's reaching out, like
dialog: all of us. Try and help her.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I can't even help myself.
text: Miriam looks at her, puzzled, then exits the locker room,
text: heading back to the ward.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
text: Beyond the lockers, through a doorway, we see Lana lowering
text: herself into the pool. Blue ripples line the wall beyond.
speaker_heading: DISTANT VOICES
dialog: (echo affect)
dialog: Be cleansed!
text: The SOUND of the VOICES unnerves Cynthia. She presses her
text: hands against her forehand in pain.
text: We are TIGHT ON Cynthia. We hear SPLASHING.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Cleanse the heart of your mind.
text: A bright white light melts across Cynthia's face. She looks
text: up. Something draws her forward.
scene_heading: 80A CYNTHIA - SIDE ANGLE 80A
text: She begins walking, passing behind CLOTHES RACKS and LOCKERS.
text: Then, somehow, the SHADOWS of these things become the SHADOWS
text: of TREES, and then Cynthia is
scene_heading: 80B ON A BROAD FIELD 80B
text: which leads down to a POND. Twenty or so PEOPLE are gathered
text: at the edge of the water. We see the Unity House in the
dialog: distance.
text: Cynthia moves behind a tree to watch. Harris stands waist-
text: deep in the pond. The Unity House Members all sit or stand
text: on the shore. Harris holds his hands out in a gesture. A
text: girl comes forward through the group out into the water. It
text: is Cynthia, the younger Cynthia, with long hair in a braid.
text: She smiles at Harris as she nears him. He clutches her
text: hands. Behind the tree, Cynthia watches "herself," absorbed.
text: Harris looks into Cynthia's eyes. He touches her face.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: Cynthia. You are part of the
dialog: whole.
text: He grabs her by the back of the head and plunges her
text: violently under water.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Cleanse the heart of the mind!
text: He yanks her up. She smiles exultantly. He dunks her back
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Cleanse the soul of the self!
text: He yanks her up again, but it's not Cynthia. It's LANA.
text: Before she can catch her breath, she's plunged back down.
scene_heading: 80C LANA - CLOSER 80C
text: She's yanked up, but this time she's not in the pond, she's
dialog: in that gasoline-filled cistern!
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Cleanse the spirit of the body!
text: He holds her under. She starts to move her arms around to
text: grab hold of something to pull herself up, but Harris is too
text: strong. She flails around desperately.
speaker_heading: 80D CYNTHIA 80D
text: Alarmed, she moves forward--
scene_heading: 80E WITH LANA - UNDER WATER 80E
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: (distant)
dialog: Cleanse the spirit.
text: Lana's gasping, inhaling water, turning blue. Harris is
dialog: possessed.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Cleanse.
text: Her movements slow. Her eyes close. She is completely
dialog: still.
scene_heading: 80F HARRIS - CLOSE 80F
text: He looks directly at Cynthia.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: I warned you, Cynthia. I warned
dialog: you someone else would take your
dialog: place.
scene_heading: 80G UNDER WATER AGAIN 80G
text: His HAND withdraws from Lana. Her eyes OPEN. No life there.
text: SHE FLOATS UPWARDS. THE CAMERA BREAKS THE SURFACE OF THE
text: WATER WITH HER.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4)
text: We're in the clinic's swimming pool! On the edge of the
text: pool, Cynthia SCREAMS, drops to her knees in horror.
scene_heading: 80H OTHER END OF BUILDING 80H
text: The clinic CUSTODIAN and some staff run into the room.
scene_heading: 80I SWIMMING POOL - HIGH ANGLE 80I
text: Someone wades out to Lana's body, drags it to the concrete
text: deck, tries futilely to pump life back into it.
text: Across the pool, Cynthia flails at the people trying to help
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 80J INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 80J
text: TIGHT on Cynthia's arm as a clear liquid is injected into her
text: vein. We WIDEN, see Berrisford has injected her. Alan
text: watches, concerned.
text: Cynthia flails on the bed, already reacting to the sedative
dialog: qualities of the drug.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: --He killed her--he killed her
dialog: because I broke my word... He said
dialog: he'd take someone else, and he
dialog: did... She wanted my help... my
dialog: friendship... That's why... he
dialog: took her...
text: She's out cold. Behind the doctors, in the doorway, the
text: other clinic patients press close, curious. Hettie pushes
text: them out and down the hallway.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: Move it, people, this ain't a
dialog: sideshow... Get back to your
dialog: rooms...
text: Alan looks down at Cynthia with genuine concern. But
text: Berrisford eyes her totally clinically.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: (thinking aloud)
text: Fascinating.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: BERRISFORD(CONT'D)
text: She's a textbook specimen from a
dialog: collective environment, an
text: immersion philosophy, run by an
text: extremely manipulative figurehead
dialog: with Messianic delusions. Unity
dialog: House at its apex must have been a
dialog: classic matrix of belief impression
dialog: overlaid on collectivity--
dialog: (exciting himself)
dialog: That would indicate she's
text: symptomatic of a hypothetical
dialog: Borderline Personality syndrome
dialog: among cult followers, all
dialog: externalizing their anxiety!
dialog: (turning)
dialog: What do you think?
text: Alan looks at him disbelievingly.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (exploding)
dialog: I think she's fucking freaked out
dialog: about Lana!
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: (a shrug)
dialog: Possible.
scene_heading: 88 INT. HALLWAY - DAY 88
text: The patients file past the nurse's station, taking their meds
text: from Hettie. They look unsettled.
speaker_heading: ED
dialog: (aside to Ralph)
dialog: Did you see the swimming pool this
dialog: morning? The cops are all over
dialog: it... Fingerprints, photographs...
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Next they'll send in the fucking
dialog: coast guard. Lot of good it'll do
dialog: Lana.
text: HE SMASHES his fist on the counter, denting it. Hettie looks
text: at him.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: Ralph, we're gonna start billing
dialog: you for these outbursts.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ralph just crumples his medication cup and throws it towards
text: her. She glares at him, doesn't say anything.
speaker_heading: 88A NEARBY 88A
text: Cynthia and the other women from the group sit in a waiting
text: area. Connie sits in a sunbeam, looking ethereal. Gilda is
text: nearby, unmoving... tear stains on her cheeks.
speaker_heading: CONNIE
dialog: Drowning isn't so bad... I
dialog: remember when I died in Atlantis...
dialog: It was like failing asleep. You
dialog: know what's bad? Burning. When I
dialog: was in the great Fire of London,
dialog: well, let me tell you--
text: Hearing this, Cynthia chokes back a sob, jumps up and leaves
text: the room. Miriam whirls on Connie.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Connie, I don't know about your
dialog: previous lives, but in this one,
dialog: you're a shithead.
text: She follows Cynthia.
scene_heading: 88B INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - DAY 88B
text: Cynthia is on the bad, crying. Miriam comes in, sits beside
text: her... Cynthia jumps at the weight on the bad, calms when
text: she sees who it is.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Honey, you can't blame yourself.
dialog: Lana was an unhappy girl.
dialog: Sometimes unhappy girls do foolish
dialog: things.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: She didn't kill herself.
text: Cynthia sits up.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: It was Harris.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Harris?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: From Unity House. He comes to me,
dialog: Miriam. He talks to me. He
dialog: reminds me that I was supposed to
dialog: go with them that night--
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Go with them--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
text: Through the fire. To the next
dialog: world. They waited while I was in
dialog: a coma... He told me that if I
dialog: didn't join him, he would take
dialog: someone also... and he did it,
dialog: Miriam, he did it!
text: Miriam gets up, her face a mixture of sympathy... sympathy
text: and something else. She lights a cigarette. Involuntarily,
text: Cynthia FLINCHES at the spark.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: You... you don't believe me, do
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: I believe that you believe it. And
dialog: I also believe that shooting you up
dialog: every time you get the heebie-
dialog: jeebies ain't gonna do shit for
dialog: your real problems. We gotta get
dialog: you out of here--get you to some
dialog: nice place at the beach or the
dialog: mountains where you can fight your
dialog: demons in your own way. Right?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: But I don't know anyone. I don't
dialog: have any money.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: You know me.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (skeptical)
dialog: And you have money, right?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
scene_heading: 88C CLOSE ON MIRIAM 88C
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Look. Despite popular opinion to
dialog: the contrary, I have not always
dialog: been the career borderline
dialog: psychotic neurotic that I am today.
dialog: Up until a coupla years ago I was a
dialog: writer, a reporter, a damn good one
dialog: too... Hell, I really kicked some
dialog: ass with that Selectric...
text: She seems lost in thought for a moment. Unconsciously, she
text: scratches her wrist... a wrist where we notice for the first
text: time a PURPLE SCAR across the veins.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: (turning)
dialog: I was on the staff of a magazine...
dialog: Well, some people called it a rag,
dialog: but it was home: ME! Magazine. You
dialog: heard of it?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (shaking her head,
dialog: diplomatic)
dialog: I was in a coma.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Oh, right. Well, when they took me
dialog: off to the funny farm, Saul--he's
dialog: the editor--he said I was always
dialog: welcome back. Maybe this is the
dialog: time. See, if I can go to him,
dialog: tell him your story, I could get a
dialog: big advance... I'd share it with
dialog: you, and we'd be set! I mean,
dialog: girl, your story has everything...
dialog: death, hospitalization, weird
dialog: rituals, maybe a little romance--
dialog: I've seen all those longing glances
dialog: between you and Goldman-
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: What--!
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: --and now with poor Lana we got a
dialog: little mystery. Hell, you're not
dialog: an article, you're a goddamned mini-
dialog: series!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I... I don't know...
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Cynthia, let me be honest. This is
dialog: a great story, and it means a
dialog: second chance for me, so, okay,
dialog: there's some self interest here.
dialog: But I really think you need to tell
dialog: people about Unity House... about
dialog: the way decent ideas and dreams got
text: twisted into something sick and
dialog: poisonous. You owe it to the
dialog: world. You owe it to yourself.
dialog: It's your life, and you have to ask
dialog: yourself how you want to live it...
dialog: (sharper)
dialog: --if you want to live it.
text: Cynthia turns, mind made up.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Let's do it.
dialog: CUT TO,.
scene_heading: 92 INT. HALLWAY - DAY 92
text: Cynthia walks along with Miriam towards the banks of
dialog: elevators.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: I think I know a way to make a
dialog: phone call. We'll have you out of
dialog: here tonight.
text: Miriam suddenly stops, almost paralyzed with anxiety.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Cynthia. This is the right thing
dialog: to do.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Of course it is.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Uh oh. Mum's the word.
text: Alan is coming down the hallway towards them. They move
text: towards the elevator.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Ladies. Good to see you
text: socializing, Cynthia.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Yes.
dialog: (to Miriam)
dialog: See you later. And... thanks.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Thank you.
text: Miriam then gets into the elevator. The doors remain open,
text: Alan turns to Cynthia.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: How are you feeling?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Fine.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Good.
text: He heads off in the opposite direction. Cynthia watches him.
text: She turns back towards Miriam. Miriam is alone in the
text: elevator except for one other person.
text: Miriam smiles and waves.
text: Cynthia smiles and waves.
text: From behind Miriam, Harris, all burned and puffy, smiles and
dialog: waves.
text: The elevator doors close.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No!
text: Alan whirls around. Cynthia rushes to the elevator.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Miriam! Stop!
text: She bangs on the buttons. She pounds on the doors. Everyone
text: in the corridor turns to look.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
text: He starts to approach. She runs to a stairwell.
scene_heading: 93 INT. STAIRWELL 93
text: Cynthia sprints down a flight. She goes out onto
scene_heading: 94 INT. HALLWAY, ONE FLIGHT DOWN 94
text: Cynthia runs to the elevator and pounds on the button, but
text: the elevator car has already passed.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (yelling into the door)
dialog: Miriam, get out!
text: She races back to
scene_heading: 95 INT. STAIRWELL 95
text: She flies down the steps. We can hear ALAN tailing her.
speaker_heading: ALAN'S VOICE
dialog: Cynthia!
text: She swings around a turn into a flight and trips. Suddenly
text: she's ROLLING DOWN A
scene_heading: 96 EXT. HILLSIDE - NIGHT 96
text: She SLAMS into a tree. We see the Unity House in the
dialog: distance.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Cynthia!
speaker_heading: ANOTHER VOICE
dialog: She's trying to get away!
text: There are PEOPLE pounding through the brush all around her.
text: She gets up and runs along the path into the forest.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Cynthia! We want you to stay with
dialog: us! You mustn't be afraid!
text: She is in total panic, running blindly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Please, no.
text: Branches thrash her face. She can barely see where she is
text: going, but she comes to a halt when she reaches a dark
text: precipice, a cliff which seemingly has no bottom--just black
dialog: as night.
text: The people are getting nearer.
speaker_heading: FEMALE VOICE
dialog: She's over here.
text: We see someone nearing through the brush.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: No pain, Cynthia. There's no pain.
dialog: Come with us. Share with us. Take
dialog: my hand.
text: Cynthia looks down the cliff.
speaker_heading: ORDERLY'S VOICE
dialog: Take my hand.
text: Cynthia backs away. She starts lowering herself down, trying
text: to get footing. Some rocks slide out.
scene_heading: 97 INT. STAIRWELL 97
speaker_heading: ORDERLY
dialog: Cynthia, take my hand.
text: The Orderly rushes to her, but she wavers dizzily and FALLS
text: down the half-flight. She's dazed, but she becomes alert
text: when she sees the orderly approaching. She picks herself up
dialog: and runs.
scene_heading: 98 INT. TENTH FLOOR CORRIDOR 98
text: She gets to the elevator. The door is just closing, but it
text: opens again against a purse--Miriam's purse. The elevator is
text: empty. Cynthia whips around looking for her. Orderlies and
text: nurses are moving towards her.
text: At the opposite and of the hallway, a window is broken.
text: Cynthia runs to it. There is a WOMAN'S SCREAM from the
text: street below. PEOPLE YELLING. Cynthia looks out and down.
text: We know what she sees. She covers her face.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: An orderly takes hold of her. She is docile now, almost
text: weak. Alan runs up. He looks out the window. So does a
dialog: Nurse.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Jesus.
text: The nurse crosses herself. Cynthia is escorted away amid the
dialog: confusion.
scene_heading: 99 EXT. SKY - DAY 99
text: The CAMERA IS MOVING FORWARD, TOWARDS the window.
text: It seemingly goes OUT THROUGH THE WINDOW.
text: The FRAME is filled with bright blue sky.
text: Silence, except for a slight BREEZE.
text: Someone is falling through the sky. It is MIRIAM.
text: We see her CLOSER, flowing down, the wind rushing up round
text: her. She is happy.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Cynthia, it's really quite
dialog: beautiful.
text: The ground comes rushing up and we SLAM into it.
speaker_heading: BLACK.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 99A INT. THERAPY ROOM - NIGHT 99A
text: It's not a session. It's a wake. Cynthia sits, face half in
dialog: shadow.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: They want us all now. They want us
dialog: with them. Whether we like it or
dialog: not, we're going,
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia, we're all upset by what's
dialog: happened. But let's not get--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Harris promised us eternal bliss on
dialog: the other side when we're all
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: CONNIE
dialog: Eternal bliss....
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Eternal bullshit--!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Miriam was going to write a story
dialog: about me. He killed her because
dialog: she was going to help me got out of
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia, please...
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: You're not listening to me! He
dialog: wants us all to die! He wants you
dialog: all with them, and it's because of
dialog: me!
dialog: (sobbing)
dialog: It's all because of me...
text: Berrisford addresses a pack of about thirty REPORTERS and
scene_heading: PHOTOGRAPHERS and CAMERAMEN.
speaker_heading: FIRST REPORTER
dialog: Dr. Berrisford, what would you call
dialog: two suicides on your promises so
dialog: close together?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: I'd call it a tragic coincidence.
dialog: Unfortunately, Borderline
dialog: Personality Disorder is indicative
dialog: of a pre-existing disposition
dialog: towards suicidal tendencies.
speaker_heading: SECOND REPORTER
dialog: What about the commune girl? Has
dialog: she confirmed that the fire was
dialog: some sort of mass suicide?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: As that is a police matter, I am
dialog: not at liberty to comment on it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: FIRST REPORTER
dialog: Speaking of the police, doctor,
dialog: isn't it true that they suspect
dialog: that the recent deaths may not have
dialog: been suicides at all?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: That's completely absurd. Where do
dialog: you get this nonsense?
speaker_heading: FIRST REPORTER
dialog: (a smug smile)
dialog: From Lieutenant Wasserman. He
dialog: confirmed to me that he's assigning
dialog: some of his officers to the
dialog: hospital grounds until further
dialog: notice.
text: Pandemonium as the other reporters seize this information.
speaker_heading: REPORTERS
dialog: (rapid fire)
dialog: Doctor Berrisford, are you
dialog: cooperating with the police? Dr.
dialog: Berrisford, do your patients have a
dialog: history of violence?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Ah... I have work to do. No
dialog: further questions.
text: And--flustered for once--he leaves the room.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 107 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 107
text: It is raining. Cynthia sits in bed, in the dark.
text: We see the CHARRED AND BURNED HARRIS sitting across the room
text: in a shadow. Cynthia looks over at him.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: You're in pain, Cynthia.
text: He reaches up to his face, and peels off some skin. It
text: CRACKLES and oozes. He peels off more.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Your pain is my pain. We share it
dialog: all, because we have our love.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: HARRIS(CONT'D)
dialog: Our love will never die. Don't
dialog: make me take another of your
dialog: friends. Keep your promise,
dialog: lovechild. Join me.
text: She stands, fumbles for the switch, knocks over a glass, and
text: turns on the light.
text: He is gone. As she stands there in shock, a HAND touches her
text: shoulder, spins her around. She GASPS--
text: It's Alan, who's just opened the door. He looks at her,
dialog: worried.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I didn't want you to be alone.
text: She sways, dizzy, sags in his arms.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Looks like I was right.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 108 INT. CONNIE'S ROOM - NIGHT 108
text: Connie is sitting on her bad. She takes her pills from
text: Hettie dutifully. Ed comes in.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: What are you doing here?
speaker_heading: ED
dialog: You know me at feeding time.
text: He takes his meds from her, smiling. CHEWS THEM loudly and
text: sloppily until she grimaces and goes out.
text: Then, the minute the door closes, Ed and Connie are in each
text: other's arms. They kiss like characters in a Harlequin
dialog: Romance.
speaker_heading: CONNIE
dialog: (coming up for air)
dialog: Why didn't you tell me before that
dialog: you were a Prince of Ancient
dialog: Atlantis?
speaker_heading: ED
dialog: It slipped my mind ... your
dialog: Highness.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: She kisses him passionately again. He breaks the clinch,
text: pulls her towards the door.
speaker_heading: ED (CONT'D)
dialog: They'll have bed check soon. I
dialog: know a better place.
scene_heading: 109 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 109
text: Alan site on the counter across from Cynthia's bed. He plays
text: with the hinged mirror on the wall.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I don't know if you want to hear
dialog: this or not, and frankly, I don't
dialog: care.
text: As he toys with the mirror, we see a CANTED REFLECTION of
text: first Cynthia and then the hallway. A nurse passes by.
scene_heading: 109A ON CYNTHIA 109A
text: As she listens.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: You are no more responsible for
dialog: those deaths twelve hours ago than
dialog: you are for the ones twelve years
dialog: ago.
text: Something catches her eye.
scene_heading: 109B IN THE MIRROR 109B
text: Connie and Ed walk by.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Thinking otherwise is putting you
text: in a self-replicating spiral of
dialog: depression. And that puts me in a
dialog: bind... What do I do, write more
dialog: prescriptions? You need to face
dialog: reality, not get medicated out of
dialog: it...
text: Cynthia GASPS. HARRIS HAS APPEARED IN THE MIRROR, following
dialog: Ed and Connie.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: 109C BACK TO SCENE 109C
text: Cynthia jumps up, heads for the door. Alan catches her by
dialog: the wrist,
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Damn it, Cynthia, you can't run
dialog: away from this--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: It's Harris--he's going to do
dialog: something to Connie--to Ed--!
text: Alan SLAPS her. She pales... tries to hit him back.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Good! Get mad--get angry--but not
dialog: at me--at these fantasies--!
text: She stands on rocky feet, unsure...
scene_heading: 112 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 112
text: Connie and Ed come to a door marked "Utility." Ed looks
text: around cautiously and opens the door, relieved that it's
text: still unlocked.
scene_heading: 113 INT. UTILITY ROOM - NIGHT 113
text: Once inside the small space, he kisses Connie. He pulls out
text: a pint flask of schnapps from his bathrobe pocket. He gives
text: her a swig.
speaker_heading: CONNIE
dialog: (wistful)
dialog: Nectar from the grapes of Atlantis!
speaker_heading: ED
dialog: No fooling you.
text: He leads her back to a door that's labeled "DANGER:
text: Authorized Personnel Only." The lock is busted open. They go
dialog: in.
dialog: 75.
scene_heading: 114 INT. TURBINE ROOM - NIGHT 114
text: There are metal grating steps leading up to a platform that
text: sits adjacent to a huge spinning turbine, its six-foot blades
text: WHIRRING at top speed. Air ducts lead in and out of the
dialog: space.
text: Connie is uplifted, frightened, exhilarated. Their clothes
text: and hair are blown around. They ascend the platform, and sit
text: across from each other. They each take a swig. They kiss
text: softly, spiritually.
speaker_heading: ED
dialog: I'm so happy.
scene_heading: 115 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 115
text: The door to the utility room CLOSES. It LOCKS.
scene_heading: 116 INT. TURBINE ROOM - NIGHT 116
text: Connie and Ed stare into each other's eyes. They are lost.
text: The CAMERA MOVES IN AND OUT between and around them,
text: exploring the depth of their absorption. The CAMERA MOVES
text: TOWARDS the huge spinning turbine. Its SOUND builds to a
text: tremendous ROAR.
text: We see Connie and Ed through the door into the turbine room.
text: The door is pulled closed by someone or something. The knob
dialog: locks.
scene_heading: 117 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 117
text: Cynthia keeps looking at the door, worried.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Miriam and Lana were both deeply
dialog: disturbed women. Miriam tried to
dialog: kill herself before. Lana was
dialog: obsessed with the morbid... You
dialog: heard her in the sessions. You
dialog: can't twist what they did into
dialog: something other than what it was.
text: Just then, all the lights go OUT.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Now what?
text: In the darkness, he stumbles towards the light, flicks it.
text: Nothing. The door OPENS. In the dim light of the hallway
text: emergency lamps, we SEE Cynthia go out.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Damn it, Cynthia, come back--!
text: Trying to follow, he COLLIDES With some furniture.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Shit--!
scene_heading: 118 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 118
text: Darkness and confusion. Cynthia passes by the CAMERA. A
text: moment later Alan comes by, looking for her. Other patients
text: come out and wonder. Flashlights. A NURSE streams by.
speaker_heading: NURSE
text: It's just overloaded circuits.
dialog: Everyone, please go back into your
dialog: room.
text: CAMERA ADJUSTS to show an elderly, skeletal custodian, EDGAR,
text: on the phone.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: The turbine room upstairs? All
dialog: right.
dialog: (he hangs up)
dialog: We'll set it straight in a minute.
text: Somethin's caught in the turbine.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Hurry.
scene_heading: 120 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 120
text: Edgar comes up to the utility door, but it won't budge.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Goddammit.
text: He walks off.
dialog: 77.
scene_heading: 121 INT. UTILITY TUNNEL - NIGHT 121
text: This is a low passageway between floors. Edgar has to stoop
text: under the ducts and pipes. He comes to a small hatchway in
text: the coiling above him marked "CAUTION: Turbine."
text: There is a latch which has to be pulled to release the
text: hatchway. Edgar pulls. It's stuck. He yanks with his frail
text: body. The latch barely moves.
text: A TRICKLE OF BLOOD streams out at the edge, but Edgar doesn't
dialog: see it.
text: Edgar yanks and pulls with all his might, groaning and
text: heaving. Finally he stops in frustration. He sits an a
text: duct, resting.
text: Just then the latch undoes itself. The hatchway slams open.
text: Edgar is showered with red lumpy fluid. He is coated with
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: What the hell?
text: Edgar looks down. In the pool of red is a woman's shoe.
text: Puzzled, he bends down, picks it up. Something FALLS OUT OF
dialog: IT.
scene_heading: 121A ON THE FLOOR 121A
text: It is a SEVERED HUMAN FOOT.
speaker_heading: 121B ON EDGAR 121B
text: as he reacts in shock, the spinning turbine begins to
text: SPLATTER DROPS OF BLOOD on him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 122 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 122
text: Cynthia comes towards us. Alan, further down the hall, sees
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia--!
text: Cynthia turns, reacts... and then reacts to--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CONNIE'S VOICE
dialog: Cynthia. Cynthia.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Connie?
text: She goes into another corridor. Alan hurries to catch up,
text: but then has to help a nurse with a frightened OLDER WOMAN.
scene_heading: 122A ANOTHER CORRIDOR - WITH CYNTHIA 122A
speaker_heading: CONNIE'S VOICE
dialog: Cynthia.
text: Cynthia moves down the hall a bit. She looks up at the
text: coiling.
scene_heading: 123 ANGLE - THE AIR VENT 123
speaker_heading: CONNIE'S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Cynthia, we're up here!
text: Down the hall further, another vent.
speaker_heading: ED'S VOICE
dialog: Come with us, Cynthia!
speaker_heading: CONNIE'S VOICE
dialog: You must join us, Cynthia!
text: Cynthia follows the voices. She is underneath another larger
text: vent with a fan spinning inside. Everyone in the hall
text: ignores her.
speaker_heading: HARRIS' VOICE
dialog: Cynthia, you must reach out and
dialog: embrace our love for you... You
dialog: must reach out to me...
text: We see Harris now, behind the fan, in brief flashes of light,
text: burnt then normal, gazing down at Cynthia. He reaches
text: towards her.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Where are Connie and Ed?
text: His fingers ARE SLICED OFF BY THE FAN. He takes no notice.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: They're with us now.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
text: We hear SPLASHING. Cynthia looks over. Gallons of blood and
text: solid matter pour out of the ceiling vents all down the hall.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Where are they?
dialog: (she is frantic)
dialog: Where are Connie and Ed? Where are
dialog: they?
text: Alan wonders at the pouring red, then he hears Cynthia
text: screaming. He runs down the hall to stop her.
text: The patients and nurses watch the blood pour in horror.
text: Cynthia is getting more and more hysterical.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Where are Connie and Ed?
text: Alan corners her.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: It's all right--it's all right--
text: Suddenly, out of nowhere, a BL00D-COVERED BODY careens into
dialog: them, driving them apart!
speaker_heading: 123A ANGLE 123A
text: It's Edgar, covered with blood, in a total state of shock.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: --horrible--sweet Jesus--help me--
text: Alan struggles to restrain him. Nurses run to help.
speaker_heading: 123B CYNTHIA 123B
text: Huddles on the floor in a position not unlike the one from
text: her coma. She SOBS uncontrollably.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 123C INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 123C
text: Alan and an orderly escort Cynthia to her room. Alan comes
text: out, watches Edgar pass by in a wheelchair, raving. Ralph
text: and Gilda come up to Alan.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: What the fuck is going on?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: It's Ed and Connie. They're dead,
dialog: aren't they?
text: Alan looks at her. How did the grapevine got it to her so
dialog: fast?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Yes. We're not sure what
dialog: happened... There was evidence
dialog: that they were drinking... They
dialog: fell into... the main turbine.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Fuck... Look, Ed drank before.
dialog: Lots of times. Didn't know that,
dialog: did you? But he didn't usually
dialog: decide to jump into a mix master,
dialog: man!
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Ralph, as for your own safety, you
dialog: are being given the most amount of
dialog: protection possible.
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: The police are powerless. Ask
dialog: Cynthia. She knows.
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Harris wants us all.
text: Ralph looks at Gilda with almost as much dismay as Alan.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Jesus Fucking Christ! I'm getting
dialog: the hell out of here.
text: Ralph storms out.
scene_heading: 125 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 125
text: As Ralph moves along, a paunchy POLICEMAN intercepts him.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Now what?
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Lieutenant Wasserman assigned me to
dialog: you. Where you go--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: I get the picture. Try not to
dialog: shoot me or your fat ass, okay?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 126 BERRISFORD'S SILENT IMAGE ON A VIDEO SCREEN 126
scene_heading: 127 INT. CYNTHIA'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 127
text: The newscast continues silently on the TV in her room. She
text: is getting dressed. She peaks out the door.
scene_heading: 128 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 128
text: The Policeman assigned to her is down the hall a ways,
text: chatting with a nurse. Cynthia slips out and down the
dialog: corridor.
text: She waits for an elevator. When a door opens, she tries to
text: inconspicuously slip inside but she finds herself face to
text: face with Alan who in just getting out of the elevator. He
text: holds a grocery bag.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Isn't this a coincidence?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I'm getting out of here.
text: He takes her arm and starts leading her back to her room.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Believe it or not, this is the
dialog: safest place for you to be. The
dialog: police are here. There are doctors
dialog: here. And I'm going to keep you
dialog: company, all night. I even brought
dialog: provisions.
text: He shows a variety of fast food.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
text: Pure unadulterated junk. At this
dialog: point, who cares about the
dialog: chemicals?
text: She smiles slightly. He holds his arm out for her like a
text: swain escorting his date. She takes it in a similar spirit.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The policeman comes out of Cynthia's room, looking for her in
text: alarm. He's instantly relieved to see her there with Alan.
text: Alan directs her inside. She goes. Alan gives the Policeman
text: a look.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Try harder next time.
text: He goes into her room, leaving the embarrassed cop behind.
text: Suddenly the LIGHTS RETURN with an eye-jarring FLASH. The
text: cop has his revolver halfway out of the holster before he
text: realizes what it is.
scene_heading: 128B INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 128B
text: They both react to the returned power with relief. Alan
text: takes the stuff out of the bag: chips, dips, cookies, six-
text: packs of beer. He offers some of the chips. She shakes her
text: head. The TV's still on. Alan switches channels with the
text: sound muted.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (with frightening
dialog: casualness)
dialog: Connie and Ed aren't going to be
dialog: the last.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Yes, they are. Everyone's under
dialog: protection. Nothing can happen.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 128C CLOSE UP - A KNIFE 128C
text: pointing upwards. An outstretched hand SLAMS itself down,
text: the blade impaling through the palm. The hand squirms its
text: fingers a bit, then pulls off.
scene_heading: 130 INT. RALPH'S ROOM - NIGHT 130
text: He gets up clenching the perforated hand. He is very calm.
text: He closes the knife and puts it in a drawer.
text: Suddenly, violently, he kicks a trash bin. Then he is calm
dialog: again.
text: Ralph's assigned Policeman pokes his head in the door.
speaker_heading: RALPH'S POLICEMAN
dialog: Everything okay?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ralph sticks his hand behind him. He is very friendly, very
text: normal. He smiles.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Yes, thank you, officer. Hey,
dialog: lemme buy you a cup of coffee.
speaker_heading: RALPH'S POLICEMAN
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: Sounds good to me.
scene_heading: 131 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 131
text: Ralph comes out of his room. Ralph's policeman is beside
text: him. His hand bleeds, but goes unnoticed.
scene_heading: 132 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 132
text: Alan lies back in front of the TV, eyes closed, SNORING.
text: Sympathetic, Cynthia slips the remote control from his
text: hand... then there is a KNOCK at the door. She goes there,
text: finds Ralph, who steps inside.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: (to his cop)
dialog: Just a sec.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph? What is it?
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Nothing. I just came to tell you--
dialog: (smiling,
dialog: conspiratorially)
dialog: Everything's gonna be okay.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: What's going to be okay?
text: He goes into the bathroom and rinses his blood-soaked hand.
text: Cynthia sees this.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: What happened to your hand?
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Don't worry. Everything's gonna be
dialog: okay.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph?
text: Cynthia is mystified. He goes.
scene_heading: 133 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 133
text: Ralph walks off, his Policeman following.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (yelling down the hall)
dialog: Ralph?
scene_heading: 134 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 134
text: She comes in and pokes Alan awake.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
text: Ralph was just here. His hand
dialog: was... all bloody.
text: They go to the door and they are immediately faced with
dialog: Hettie.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: Dr. Goldman, have you seen Ralph?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I was going to ask you the same
dialog: thing.
text: She holds up a paper cup with a tablet in it.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
text: He didn't take his four o'clock.
dialog: If he misses this one, I'm gonna...
text: Alan takes the capsule, examines it.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Shit! It's his tranquilizer! If he
dialog: doesn't take this, he'll completely
dialog: flip out--!
text: Alan and Cynthia run down the hall. Cynthia's policeman
text: follows.
dialog: 85.
scene_heading: 135 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 135
text: Alan and Cynthia and the policeman scan for Ralph.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Look.
scene_heading: 136 ANGLE - ON THE FLOOR 136
text: Every five or six feet along in a line, there is a moderately-
text: sized droplet splatter of blood. They follow the droplets
text: along the hallway.
text: They follow the droplets through a set of double doors.
scene_heading: 137 INT. DARK, QUIET HALLWAY - NIGHT 137
text: Ralph walks along, his policeman trailing. No one else is
dialog: around.
speaker_heading: RALPH'S POLICEMAN
dialog: Are you sure you know where you're
dialog: going?
text: Ralph stops suddenly and turns to him. Ralph smiles warmly.
text: Suddenly he hits the cop in the head using two fists.
text: The cop falls.
scene_heading: 138 INT. HALLWAY IN CLOSED SECTION OR HOSPITAL 138
text: Alan and Cynthia's policeman move down the hall, following
text: the drops, scanning in doorways. Cynthia is just behind
dialog: them.
text: These hallways are unused. Nobody around.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Was he behaving strangely?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No more strangely than everybody
dialog: also in this place.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA'S POLICEMAN
dialog: (with walkie-talkie)
dialog: I can't get him. He must be shut
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: They pass an open freight elevator. Cynthia looks in it and
dialog: stops.
text: There is a droplet of blood on the floor inside.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Hey.
text: A BLOODY HAND reaches out of the elevator covering her mouth
text: and pulls her inside.
scene_heading: 139 INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR - NIGHT 139
text: Ralph holds her, slams the gate closed, and flips the switch.
text: The car moves down. Cynthia SCREAMS.
scene_heading: 140 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 140
text: Alan and the policeman rush up just as the car disappears.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia!
scene_heading: 141 INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR - NIGHT 141
text: They descend. She wipes blood from her face. He looks
dialog: wired.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph, we have to go and get your
dialog: medication.
text: She slowly moves to the control panel. He watches her. Just
text: as she is about to reach the buttons, he violently pushes her
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Relax.
text: He smiles.
scene_heading: 142 INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT 142
text: The elevator comes down to a stop. Ralph throws the door
text: open. It is a huge dark space, a vast store room. Cynthia
text: won't come out. Ralph gestures politely.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph, I'm not going out. We have
dialog: to go back upstairs.
text: Ralph grabs her firmly and pulls her out.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Ralph, please!
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: I have to talk to you.
text: He leans in the elevator, opens the control panel and yanks
text: some wires. Sparks fly. The HUM of the elevator motor dies.
text: Cynthia is panicked.
speaker_heading: RALPH (CONT'D)
dialog: It's very, very, very, very, very
dialog: important that I talk to you.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph, you're not being yourself.
dialog: Can't you tell?
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: No! This is the real me!
text: He flies across the basement and, grabbing a chair, smashes
text: the control box for the electric cargo door, the only other
dialog: entrance.
text: He darts up a storage aisle. He rips a phone off the wall.
speaker_heading: RALPH (CONT'D)
dialog: I come down here a lot. It helps
dialog: me unwind.
text: Cynthia can't see him. He wildly paces up and down the
text: storage aisles. Cynthia starts to cry.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph, please! How do we get out?
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: It's been said by better men than
dialog: me in better ways in better times--
dialog: there is no way out!
text: She goes to a barred window.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Help!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
text: Ralph goes into a rage. He pushes over a huge storage shelf.
text: Everything spills and breaks. Amid the rubble a pile of
text: surgical blades lies glinting in a pool of light.
text: Ralph looks down at it.
text: Cynthia sees him looking at it. She is afraid. He grabs
text: some of the blades randomly and disappears. He is walking
text: crazily up and down the storage aisles. Cynthia only catches
text: glimpses of him. He jumps up and breaks the individual LIGHT
text: BULBS which hang on wires, providing the only illumination.
text: The space grows DARKER. All the while, Ralph talks and
dialog: talks.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: There are only a few chances for
dialog: real glory, and most people fuck it
dialog: up. Most people can't even find
text: the noses on their fucking faces.
speaker_heading: (jump, BREAK)
dialog: You want an example? How about
text: EVERY FUCKING DOCTOR in this entire
dialog: hospital? Do you think I'm just
dialog: going to let myself slowly dissolve
dialog: into nothingness here?!
speaker_heading: (jump, BREAK)
dialog: I'm talking about a glorious glory.
dialog: And everybody's trying to drag me
dialog: down!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph, please, they said you have
dialog: to take some pills.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Pills have got nothing to do with
dialog: it! You know what I'm talking
dialog: about!
text: He jumps, smashes the last bulb. She can't see him.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No, I don't. I don't.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: You do! Real glory, hallelujah!
text: The great big gig in the sky.
dialog: Don't play dumb, Cynthia.
text: She sees him at the far and of the aisle. His shirt is off.
text: There are deep, bleeding cuts all over his chest and stomach.
text: He has blades clenched in both fists.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
text: Cynthia is terrified.
speaker_heading: RALPH (CONT'D)
dialog: I think you know the word I'm
dialog: searching for.
text: He starts making deep slashes on his arm.
speaker_heading: RALPH (CONT'D)
dialog: U, N, I, T, Y! Unity!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Oh God, Ralph! No!
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: Yes, oh, yes! Eternal bliss!
text: He stops and raises the scalpels to his chest. He jabs them
text: in and cuts open down to his stomach.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Ralph, please, stop!
text: He swats at the one remaining lamp. It flickers on and off.
text: Ralph's eyes flutter. He FALLS. Cynthia rushes to him.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Ralph!
text: He throws a scalpel at her. It misses, but she is spattered
dialog: with blood.
speaker_heading: RALPH
dialog: (fading)
dialog: Get back.
text: Cynthia is crouched down, crying as she watches him.
speaker_heading: RALPH (CONT'D)
dialog: Join us, Cynthia.
text: The light flickers off, then on. A hand is on Cynthia's
text: shoulder. She looks up...
dialog: it is Harris.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: Join us.
text: The bulb DIES. Blackness.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4)
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: Join us.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 144 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 144
text: Wasserman rushes in, raincoat over a pajama shirt and chino
text: slacks. Another POLICEMAN rushes to meet him.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
text: They're in the basement. The
text: girl's alive.
text: They run on together.
scene_heading: 145 INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT 145
text: Lots of COPS, a few DOCTORS and ORDERLIES. Alan is stopped
text: by a FEMALE COP.
text: He looks into the basement area and sees Ralph in a pool of
text: blood. A POLICE PHOTOGRAPHER is taking pictures of him.
text: Alan stares at Ralph.
text: Berrisford is with Cynthia and a nurse. Cynthia is getting
dialog: an injection.
text: Wasserman comes over to Alan and Berrisford.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: You're running out of patients,
dialog: Doctors.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: What did she say happened?
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
text: She's having a little trouble with
dialog: reality--as usual.
text: A nurse and an orderly escorts Cynthia towards the elevator.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (to Alan)
dialog: Goodbye, Alan. Thanks for trying.
dialog: But it's time for me to go now.
text: Alan suddenly realizes what she means.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I have to go with her. Where is
dialog: she being taken?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Isolation.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: Isolation? Are you out of your
dialog: mind? That girl needs human
dialog: contact--connection--isolation is
dialog: the worst thing you can do--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Dr. Goldman, I know you're fond of
dialog: the girl, but you're out of line.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Shit. You want her on the edge,
dialog: don't you... You want to play your
dialog: theory out to the end--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Goldman!
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: (interested)
dialog: Theory? Anything I should know?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: It's an extraordinarily complex
dialog: situation, severe identity crisis
text: compounded with the multiple shock
dialog: of these deaths. She's reverting
dialog: to this total belief system from
text: the commune through an intermittent
dialog: psychosis that puts ideology above
dialog: her life itself--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Fuck ideology! Fuck you,
dialog: Berrisford! You can't use a human
dialog: being as a guinea pig--
dialog: (to Wasserman)
dialog: You have to stop this. Call it
dialog: off--I'll--I'll sign her into
dialog: police custody if I can stay on as
dialog: her physician--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Doctor Goldman. I believe your
dialog: tenure with my clinic has just come
text: to an end.
dialog: (calling off)
dialog: Security? Would you please escort
dialog: Dr. Goldman off the premises?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 146 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 146
text: Cynthia is escorted through the hospital by the nurse and
text: policeman. She moves without resistance, without emotion.
text: We hear CRICKETS. Cynthia hovers in a dreamlike calm. The
text: hospital is a blur as they move through it.
text: Objects pass in front of our view as we TRACK with her.
text: Cynthia, the nurse, and the policeman walk up the path to
scene_heading: 147 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - DUSK 147
text: The imposing facade of the old Victorian with its warmly lit
text: windows looks inviting. The three make their way over the
text: lawn up the path towards the front porch. An evening BREEZE
text: is just coming up.
text: Cynthia looks around, absorbing the environment. The
text: policeman and the nurse say nothing. Cynthia turns to them.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Would you like to come in?
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: No, thank you.
text: Cynthia steps inside.
scene_heading: 148 INT. ISOLATION ROOM - NIGHT 148
text: The door is closed. It is dark. A video camera hovers
text: above. We hear keys L0CKING a bolt. Cynthia stand there.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: It's time, Cynthia.
dialog: 93.
scene_heading: 149 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 149
text: The nurse puts her keys in her pocket, looks at the
text: policeman, and goes.
text: The policeman stays.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 149A INT. BERRISFORD CLINIC - NEAR EXIT - NIGHT 149A
text: Furious, carrying a carton of personal items, Alan storms
text: towards the exit. The security guard rises to intercept him.
speaker_heading: SECURITY GUARD
dialog: --Excuse me, Dr. Goldman?
dialog: (apologetic)
dialog: I'm going to have to ask you for
dialog: your key card.
dialog: (apologetic)
dialog: Dr. Berrisford's orders. I'm
dialog: sorry.
text: Burning, Alan shifts his package, finds the card, flings it
text: down on the counter.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Tell Berrisford he can use it for a
dialog: bookmark. Maybe then he can find
text: his dick without a road map.
speaker_heading: SECURITY GUARD
dialog: We're gonna miss you around here,
dialog: Dr. Goldman.
text: Alan manages a smile for the man, goes out.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 152 A DIM, FUZZY VIDEO IMAGE 152
text: FOCUS DOWN until we realize it is Cynthia lying in her bed.
text: We are looking at her from directly above. We WIDEN, realize
text: that we're at a NURSE'S STATION, where Cynthia is monitored
text: along with other patients. We can see that she is talking.
dialog: 94.
scene_heading: 154 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM 154
text: The only illumination comes from a small lamp near Cynthia's
text: bed. She seems comparatively alert.
speaker_heading: HARRIS' VOICE
dialog: You were always the favorite. We
dialog: love you. Come with us.
scene_heading: FEMALE UNITY MEMBER
dialog: All of us together, that's all
dialog: we've ever wanted, isn't it?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Why are you doing it to everybody
dialog: else? Why don't you kill me?
speaker_heading: 154A ON HARRIS 154A
text: His index finger is AFLAME.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Why don't you kill me?
text: We see the whole room now. It's filled with Unity House
text: Members, all of them. They're sitting leaning, slumping
text: everywhere in the shadows. Among them are Connie and Ed.
speaker_heading: CONNIE
dialog: You have to do it yourself, honey.
dialog: When you didn't... he took us
dialog: instead. But we're not mad. It's
dialog: wonderful here.
scene_heading: FEMALE UNITY MEMBER 2
dialog: Death is like this really beautiful
dialog: trip Cynthia. We just want to
dialog: share
dialog: it with you.
dialog: Lana and Miriam.
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: You mustn't be afraid, Cynthia.
text: Harris in playing with his burning finger.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: if I can do it, you can do it,
dialog: honey.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Why don't you kill me?
scene_heading: 157 INT. NURSE'S STATION - NIGHT 157
text: A NURSE notices Cynthia's movement on the screen. She turns
dialog: the volume up.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (ON TV)
dialog: Why don't you just kill me?!
text: The nurse gets up. Gilda is standing there. She follows.
text: Gilda's policeman lurks nearby.
speaker_heading: GILDA'S POLICEMAN
dialog: Hey.
scene_heading: 158 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 158
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: You have to join us because you
dialog: love us. You have to do it for
dialog: yourself.
text: We hear the Nurse UNLOCKING the door.
text: A MALE UNITY MEMBER looks over at the door. We seem him
text: momentarily burned.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: You have to do it for yourself--
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: --lovechild.
text: We see Harris momentarily burned. He blows his finger out.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: But I'm so scared.
text: The Nurse opens the door. The room is empty except for
text: Cynthia on her bed.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: You want me to call the doctor,
dialog: honey?
text: Cynthia says nothing.
speaker_heading: NURSE (CONT'D)
dialog: Try to sleep, all right?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Gilda rushes in behind the Nurse, going to Cynthia.
speaker_heading: NURSE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, get out of here!
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: I can do nothing for you now, but
dialog: know this--the answer you seek is
dialog: inside of you! It is inside you!
text: Gilda's Policeman comes in.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Get her out of here!
text: He pulls at Gilda.
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: (as she goes)
dialog: Know yourself and you will be at
dialog: peace! It is so!
text: The Nurse SLAMS the door closed. Cynthia is alone.
scene_heading: 159 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 159
text: Gilda's policeman is on the phone.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: Yeah, I'm taking her back to her
dialog: room... Okay, bye.
text: He hangs up, looks around. Gilda is gone.
scene_heading: 160 INT. HALLWAY - ELSEWHERE - NIGHT 160
text: We are FOLLOWING GILDA through the corridors back to her
dialog: room.
scene_heading: 161 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 161
text: Gilda's policeman is still looking for her. She's nowhere in
dialog: sight.
scene_heading: 164 INT. GILDA'S ROOM - NIGHT 164
text: Gilda comes in and lies down.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Momentary silence.
text: A shaft of light hits Gilda as someone comes in the door.
text: Whoever it is nears Gilda. She is calm. She looks over.
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: I know you'd come.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: GILDA (CONT'D)
dialog: But you're too late.
text: She holds up a bottle of tablets. We fleetingly see the word
dialog: "poisonous."
text: The bottle SMASHES to the floor.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 170 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 170
scene_heading: 171 TIGHT ON HER 171
text: She looks like she's been crying. She stares off into space.
text: Someone crosses in the shadows to the window.
text: The rubber edging is slit with a scalpel.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: It feels good. I know this is
dialog: right.
speaker_heading: HARRIS' VOICE
dialog: That's right. You need our love.
dialog: We need your love.
text: A shadowed hand pushes on the plexiglass. The windowpane
text: plops onto the pavement below.
text: A breeze wafts in.
text: Cynthia gets out of bed and comes to the window. She looks
text: out onto the evening horizon, refreshed, fully experiencing
dialog: the moment.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I know this is right. We'll all be
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 171A EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT 171A
text: Alan comes out, still fuming. He walks along a ways and then
text: looks at the illuminated SIGN pointing out the way to the
text: "Berrisford Clinic." Alan stares at it, then in a sudden
text: release of fury, KICKS it, once, twice, and then he THROWS
text: his carton at it.
text: Calming, feeling like an idiot, he sighs.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Brilliant. Do we feel better now?
dialog: No. Yes. Maybe.
text: A thought strikes him. He reaches into his shirt pocket,
dialog: takes out--
scene_heading: 171B TRANQUILIZER - CL0SE 171B
dialog: --the one Hettie handed to Alan two long and bloody hours
dialog: ago.
scene_heading: 171C BACK TO SCENE 171C
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (with a shrug)
dialog: It's okay, officer. I'll write
dialog: myself a prescription in the
dialog: morning.
text: He swallows it, dry, with a loud GULP, Then he picks up his
text: papers and things, heads for the parking lot.
scene_heading: 171D ALAN'S CAR - NIGHT 171D
text: PULLBACK as Alan unlocks it, his carton momentarily balanced
text: on the car roof. The door open, Alan gets in, puts his box
text: in the cluttered back seat. He SHIVERS from one of those
dialog: unexpected chills we all get, then puts the key in the
text: ignition, STARTS the engine, turns on the LIGHTS. Then he
text: looks up ahead and sees--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: 171E DR. BERRISFORD - HIS POV 171E
text: Briefcase in hand, crossing the parking lot up ahead, his
text: long shadow falling across a high retaining wall.
scene_heading: 171F BACK TO SCENE 171F
text: Alan sits, face unreadable. He REVS the engine. Faster.
dialog: Faster.
text: A strange smile crosses Alan's face. He THROWS THE CAR INTO
speaker_heading: GEAR.
scene_heading: 171G BERRISFORD - CROSSING THE LOT 171G
text: He taken out his keys, approaches his car... suddenly REACTS
scene_heading: as HEADLIGHTS BLIND HIM--
scene_heading: 171H REVERSE ANGLE 171H
text: Alan ROARS TOWARDS HIM, grinning behind the wheel--
scene_heading: 171I BACK TO SCENE 171I
dialog: Berrisford gasps, RUNS!
speaker_heading: 171J THE CHASE 171J
text: Berrisford dodges in and out of cars, behind lamp posts.
text: Manic, Alan follows him relentlessly, skidding around turns,
dialog: SIDESWIPING as many cars as budget allows. Finally--
scene_heading: 171K BERRISFORD 171K
text: finds himself against a wall--as TIRES SKID in he SCREAMS--
scene_heading: 171L INSIDE ALAN'S CAR 171L
text: He SLAMS Berrisford against the wall. Berrisford's body
text: SMACKS against the bricks, rebounds onto the windshield,
text: CRACKING IT.
text: Alan recoils from the impact, blood on his lips from his own
text: collision with the steering wheel. He looks at Berrisford,
text: squirming a foot away with the little life left in him.
text: Alan CACKLES, gives Berrisford the finger.
text: Then he throws the car into reverse.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: 171M REAR TIRES 171M
scene_heading: SKIDDING BACKWARDS--
speaker_heading: 171N BERRISFORD 171N
text: SLIDES off the car hood, hits the asphalt, his head CRACKING--
speaker_heading: 171O ALAN'S CAR 171O
scene_heading: RUNS FORWARD AGAIN--
scene_heading: 171P BERRISFORD - QUICK CUTS 171P
text: As the car GRINDS him into the ground, his wrist bones
text: SNAPPING, ribs CRUNCHING, body TWITCHING. Finally he is
text: STILL. An artery SQUIRTS fountain-like into the air.
scene_heading: 171Q INSIDE THE CAR 171Q
text: The blood hits the windshield. Idly, distracted, Alan turns
text: on the windshield wipers...
text: Suddenly HARRIS sits up in the rear seat, a smile on the
text: burned and scarred face.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: Good work, Dr. Goldman. Now, it's
dialog: your turn.
text: Skeletal hands GRAB Alan's throat. He STRUGGLES. KICKS--out
text: of the corner of his eye he sees-
speaker_heading: 171R FRONT OF CAR 171R
text: Gasoline is flowing over the dented hood and through the
text: cracked windshield and over the dash and over Alan. More and
dialog: more comes.
scene_heading: 171S BACK TO SCENE 171S
text: Holding Alan with one hand, Harris leans forward, pulls out
text: the cigarette lighter! He holds the GLOWING TIP up in the
dialog: air.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Need a light?
text: He presses the burning tip against Alan's gasoline soaked
scene_heading: CREEK. It SIZZLES--Alan SCREAMS--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
scene_heading: 171T CAR - LONG SHOT 171T
speaker_heading: It EXPLODES--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 171U ALAN - IN HIS CAR 171U
text: He jerks his head up, face drenched in sweat. He's still in
dialog: his original parking space! He's never even started the car!
text: Gasping for air, still freaked, he opens the door, tumbles
dialog: out.
scene_heading: 171V PARKING LOT 171V
text: The box of his possessions is still on the roof of the car.
text: Alan sees this, staggers against the car, fights a wave of
text: nausea. Struggling to remain composed, he takes his pulse.
text: Feels his head. Suspicion crosses his face. Then his hand
text: moves to his shirt pocket.
speaker_heading: 171W FLASH CUT 171W
text: of himself taking the pill by the clinic sign.
scene_heading: 171X BACK TO THE PRESENT 171X
text: fingers down his throat. He HEAVES his guts out beside his
text: car... but when he straightens up, he's clear eyed and lucid.
text: He turns, runs like hell towards the clinic.
scene_heading: 171Y INT. CLINIC PHARMACY - NIGHT 171Y
text: RON, the pharmacist, looks up as Alan storms inside.
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: Goldman, you look like shit--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (pushing him aside)
dialog: Show me the scrips for the therapy
dialog: group--
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: Come on, man, I can't do that--
dialog: it's Berrisford's show all the way--
text: Ignoring him, Alan finds the files.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Shit, this is all standard stuff--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: What do you expect?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Do you fill these prescriptions?
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: Nah, Berrisford does it. He comes
dialog: in every morning and sets up the
dialog: medication for the day--Hettie
dialog: takes it as she needs it--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Fuck!
text: He turns, tries to open the glass case with the prearranged
text: trays. It's locked. He grabs a paperweight, SMASHES THE
speaker_heading: GLASS.
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: Hey--!
text: Alan pulls out the tray, scans it. He grabs Ron by the
text: collar, shoves the files into his face.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Read it. Pesco, Ralph--
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: He's dead--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: READ IT! What's he down for?
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: Ah, Lithium--four times a day--
text: Alan grabs the tray, holds up a pill.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Is that Lithium?
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: Fuck, no--that's Endoral--the
dialog: complete opposite--one of those,
dialog: even a normal person would flip
dialog: out--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Tell me about it--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
text: Alan looks at the tray and its compartments labeled for Lana,
dialog: Miriam, Ed... all the others. Alan GRABS them all.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: What's this? And this? And this?
speaker_heading: RON
dialog: This is, uh, dextroamphetamine...
dialog: Christ, take one of these and you
dialog: can walk on the ceiling. Holy
dialog: mother. Methylphenidate! Don't
dialog: mass with that fucker. Clonodine!
dialog: Chlorapromazine! Preludin? Shit,
dialog: I didn't know they still made
dialog: that... Two of these and Mother
dialog: Teresa would turn into a maniac!
text: Alan in having convulsions of horror.
scene_heading: 181 FLASH CUTS - ON MIRIAM AND LANA - 181
dialog: they swallow medication.
scene_heading: 182 ON BERRISFORD - 182
text: he pulls bottles off the pharmacy shelves.
scene_heading: 183 ON CONNIE AND ED - 183
dialog: they swallow medication.
scene_heading: 184 ON BERRISFORD - 184
text: he hands the bottles of medication to the pharmacy
dialog: administrator.
scene_heading: 185 ON NURSE WITH RALPH'S PRESCRIPTION - 185
text: Alan grabs it away.
scene_heading: 186 ON BERRISFORD 186
text: he injects Cynthia with medication.
speaker_heading: RON (CONT'D)
dialog: Tetrahydrocannabinol! Do you know
dialog: what that is? Liquid condensed
dialog: marijuana! Just thinking about
dialog: that stuff gets you wasted.
text: Alan runs out.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: RON (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, Goldman, come back here!
dialog: Who's gonna clean up this mess--?
scene_heading: 187 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 187
text: Alan running faster.
scene_heading: 188 INT. NURSE'S STATION, ISOLATION WARD - NIGHT 188
text: Hettie is standing smiling in the middle of the hall. Alan
text: nears.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: You're not supposed to be here, Dr.
dialog: Goldman, are you?
text: Alan turns. Two SECURITY GUARDS are coming.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Please, Hettie, I need your help.
scene_heading: 189 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 189
text: She is at the window, facing out.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Now.
scene_heading: 190 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 190
text: Alan rushes over to Cynthia's door and pounds furiously.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia! Cynthia!
text: The two security guards start running over. One of them has
text: his gun drawn. Alan wants to run, but he sees there is no
text: way out. He sticks his hands in the air. The guards are
text: upon him. They start leading him away.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Sometimes doctors got personally
dialog: involved. I think it's a mistake.
dialog: You've got to keep professional.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: Get some rest, Goldman. You look
dialog: like shit.
text: He looks back at Hettie. He sees a fire alarm.
text: Suddenly, he grabs one of the Guard's guns. He dives against
text: the wall and pulls the fire alarm.
text: All of the Isolation Ward doors open. BELLS and SIRENS go
text: off. Red lights FLASH on and off.
speaker_heading: HETTIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, no!
text: Alan runs from the guards, shooting but missing. He runs up
text: the hall in the opposite direction of Cynthia's room.
text: He hides in a doorway. They pass. He heads back up to
text: Cynthia's room. He grabs the cop's chair and runs into
scene_heading: 191 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 191
text: He slams the door and rams the metal chair log into the bolt
text: latch to secure the door. SIRENS and BELLS continue. Alan
text: looks over. The room is dark, except for the red light
text: flashing on and off. Cynthia is crouched in the far corner
text: by the open window.
text: We can see that the room is otherwise empty of anybody.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Get out of here. I want to do it!
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (going to her)
dialog: No. Cynthia, please. I'm not
dialog: going to be able to come back, but
dialog: you have to listen! Berrisford's
dialog: been tampering with the medication
dialog: for everybody in the group--that's
dialog: why they've been committing
dialog: suicide--he's been making them
dialog: crazy--
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: But Harris comes to me... He
dialog: speaks to me--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ALAN
text: A drug induced psychotic state is
dialog: very suggestible. All we've
dialog: hearing for days is "Harris,
dialog: Harris,"... so that's what we all
dialog: saw... That's what I saw when I
dialog: took Ralph's pill! It's all part
dialog: of Berrisford's plan--he has this
dialog: fucked-up theory about how you
dialog: still think you're part of the
dialog: Unity House, and the only way he
dialog: can prove it is if you want to kill
dialog: yourself!
text: Behind Alan, the dark shape of Berrisford emerges from
text: outside the window. It is climbing inside from the ledge.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you hear me?! He's going to
dialog: want you to kill yourself! He's
dialog: recreating the whole thing for you!
dialog: But you can't listen to him!
text: Cynthia is getting hysterical. Berrisford stands behind Alan
text: with a scalpel.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Dr. Goldman.
text: Alan turns around.
text: Berrisford bashes him in the head, neatly slicing off some
text: skin. Alan flies against the wall.
text: The gun is knocked away.
text: Alan writhes a little, then dips into unconsciousness,
text: Cynthia is a basket case. She looks at Alan.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No... no... no...
text: Berrisford comes to her and starts giving her an injection.
text: She calms herself. She looks at him dreamily.
speaker_heading: 191A CYNTHIA'S POV 191A
text: She sees Harris gazing at her lovingly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: Only one thing matters.
text: She touches his face.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Our love. We'll be together. All
dialog: of us.
text: Berrisford taken Alan's gun.
scene_heading: 192 INT. CYNTHIA'S ROOM - A FEW MINUTES LATER 192
text: Alan comes to. The ALARMS and BELLS are still ringing.
text: Cynthia and Berrisford are gone.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Shit!
scene_heading: 193 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 193
text: The corridors are run amuck with isolation patients (the
text: worst kind) all escaped from their rooms. Alan runs out of
text: Cynthia's room. He is surrounded by bizarre-looking people
text: screaming, singing, dancing, praying.
text: Hettie is by the stairway helping Isolation patients exit.
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: One at a time! No pushing! Please
dialog: do not use the elevator!
text: Alan is frantically looking for Cynthia and Berrisford,
text: checking everywhere, pushing open doors.
text: The security guards are at the far end of the hallway. Alan
dialog: goes to Hettie.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Where's Berrisford?
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: This is your fault! These goddamn
dialog: doors won't re-lock!
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (furious )
dialog: Where is he? He's going to kill
dialog: Cynthia! Tell me where he is!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: HETTIE
dialog: I haven't seen him!
text: The guards see Alan. They come after him. He runs.
text: Alan scans every room. He slams into patients. The guards
text: aren't far behind. Alan turns a corner, passing a door
text: marked "NOT AN EXIT: ROOF ACCESS." It is ajar. He goes in
text: without the guards seeing him.
scene_heading: 194 INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT 194
text: It is dark, but the red lights FLASH. He runs up several
text: flights. The landings face onto the outside with a railing,
text: open, no glass.
text: He turns a corner. Cynthia is there.
text: She in perched on the outside of the railing, a serene
text: expression on her face, the wind blowing her frail white
dialog: gown.
text: Alan freezes. He moves towards her slowly, hands
text: outstretched.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (soothingly)
dialog: Cynthia, take my hand... Just
dialog: relax... Think about what you're
dialog: doing... Stay calm... I want you
dialog: to take my hand...
text: She watches him blankly. She turns to someone behind Alan.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: It's so beautiful.
text: Alan turns. There on the stair above is Berrisford, his face
text: dancing in the flashing red light.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (to Berrisford)
dialog: You piece of shit!
text: Cynthia lets go.
text: Alan reaches out.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: 195 FALLING 195
text: It is a dizzying spiral. We hear the WIND RUSHING up as we
text: go FASTER AND FASTER down. We SLAM into the ground.
text: CYNTHIA'S HEAD hits rock.
scene_heading: 196 ON HER FACE 196
text: She is still. Blood drips out her nose and mouth. She is
text: dead. We HOLD ON HER until gradually bright light pours in
text: over her. The CAMERA LIFTS UP revealing
scene_heading: 197 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - DAY 197
text: Cynthia rises and walks towards the house through a field in
text: the foreground.
text: She walks up the porch.
scene_heading: 198 INT. UNITY HOUSE ENTRANCE - DAY 198
text: She opens the door. Everything is clean and fresh. Flowers.
text: Light. Birds CHIRPING.
text: Harris is at the far and of the hall. There is an intense
text: white light behind him. He is smiling beatifically. Cynthia
text: goes towards him. As she nears him, she reaches out her
text: hands. He does too. They clasp.
speaker_heading: ALAN'S VOICE
dialog: Cynthia!
text: Suddenly she FALLS.
text: She drops and dangles in the night air against
scene_heading: 199 EXT. HOSPITAL BUILDING - NIGHT 199
text: She is unconscious. She swings twelve stories above the
dialog: pavement.
text: The CAMERA FOLLOWS UP her arm to her hand grasped tightly by
text: Alan's hand. We CONTINUE UP TO Alan.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia! Open your eyes! Open
dialog: your eyes!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: He is over the railing holding on with his other hand.
text: Cynthia is coming to.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Pull up! Pull yourself up so I can
dialog: got a grip on you!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Let me go.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Let me go. I saw it. It's
dialog: beautiful.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: You didn't see shit! Hold on!
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Eternal bliss.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Yes! I want to go! Let me go!
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: (coming forward)
dialog: Let her go. She needs it.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: No! Cynthia, Harris doesn't exist!
dialog: He's dead! Look at who that is!
dialog: Look at him! Look!
text: Cynthia looks at Berrisford deliriously.
text: He CHANGES from Berrisford to Harris with each FLASH. He
text: comes to the railing where Alan is holding on.
text: Almost politely, he tries to undo Alan's grip.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Goddamn you! Goddamn you!
text: Alan's grip on Cynthia slips down to her fingers.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Let her go. Let her go and I'll
dialog: forget your disobedience.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 111.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) BERRISFORD(CONT'D)
dialog: You can stay one with me in the
dialog: psychosis and cult behavior study.
dialog: We'll publish our findings
dialog: together--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Publish this, asshole!
text: Alan SWINGS one leg up, KICKS Berrisford in the groin.
text: Berrisford HOWLS and suddenly his calm demeanor cracks.
text: Snarling like an animal, he stomps, claws and even bites at
text: Alan's hand.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Cynthia)
dialog: Don't you hear him? He's trying to
dialog: bribe me--but I'm not letting go!
dialog: I'll go with you, but I'm not
dialog: letting go!
text: Berrisford sees the discarded gun... picks it up. He aims
text: unsteadily... SHOOTS. Alan yanks himself out of the way.
text: Berrisford misses. Berrisford moves closer. Raises the g=
text: barrel at point black range towards Alan's hand.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Cynthia, help us! Help us both!
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: You'll be with them, Dr. Goldman,
dialog: Be happy.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: S...stop it... Stop it!
text: Berrisford SHOOTS. One of Alan's finger joints is BLOWN
text: AWAY. He SCREAMS, his grip loosens, and he SLIDES down the
text: railing. Berrisford moves several yards to stay close...
text: begins to POUND on Alan's mutilated hand.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia, don't let him kill you!
dialog: Don't let him do this!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Unity... It... it's my destiny...
dialog: I've fought it too long. Right or
dialog: wrong... my death has a purpose...
dialog: It will close the book. End the
dialog: story.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Your life has a purpose... to
dialog: bring joy and happiness! You're
dialog: part of my life now. That's an
dialog: unfinished story, too...
text: She looks at Berrisford viciously pounding on Alan's hand.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Let me up. Stop it.
text: She starts to climb up, but she can't.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Let me up!
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: I'm afraid it's too late for that.
text: Alan's grip on her slips down to two fingers. They CRACK.
text: She yells from the pain. She swings in the breeze.
text: Alan is weakening. He is losing consciousness. He knows he
text: is about to die.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Dr. Berrisford?
text: Suddenly Berrisford freezes.
text: He is paralyzed at the sight of one of the guards coming up
text: the stairs. Berrisford backs away glaring.
text: Alan GROANS. The guard rushes over.
speaker_heading: GUARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Jesus
dialog: (Yelling down the stairs)
dialog: Gomez, get up here!
text: The other guard appears.
text: They start helping Alan up by Pulling his arm. As they help
text: him up, Berrisford, in a state of shock, backs further up the
text: wall. He leans against the wall and puts the gun to his
text: head. He trembles. He pulls the trigger.
speaker_heading: CLICK.
text: CLICK, CLICK, CLICK. Out of bullets. The others are too
text: busy to be noticing what he in doing. Just as they pull
text: Cynthia to the edge, she looks up to see:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4)
text: Berrisford coming to the railing, and jumping, calmly.
text: Silently.
speaker_heading: GUARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Holy shit.
text: Cynthia numbly watches him fall. Then she in pulled up and
dialog: over...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 200 INT. HALLWAY - OVERHEAD - NIGHT 200
text: Cynthia is plopped over onto a gurney. Lights are passing
text: her. She is being whisked down a hallway. She is descending
text: into a haze of unconsciousness.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR'S VOICE
dialog: I need a detox prep! Stat!
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: It was him...
scene_heading: 201 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 201
text: Alan runs alongside the gurney with doctors and nurses. He
text: clutches bloody bandages to his hand, tries to hear Cynthia.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: It's okay. It's over. It was
dialog: Berrisford. He killed them.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Then all those other things...
dialog: Faces... voices? They were... in
dialog: my head?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: It was Berrisford. He shot you up
dialog: with hallucinogens. What he didn't
dialog: do, you imagined.
text: There is joy through her delirium. She is just able to clasp
text: hands with him briefly before she disappears behind a set of
text: double doors.
scene_heading: 202 EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY 202
text: A new station wagon whisks along the pretty road.
dialog: 114.
scene_heading: 203 INT. STATION WAGON - DAY 203
text: Alan drives, Cynthia looks at a map. They both look relaxed.
text: They both have bandaged hands.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Go right if that's the interstate.
dialog: Yeah, it is.
scene_heading: 207 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - DAY 207
text: Through the greenery are the charred and overgrown remains of
text: Unity House. A chiseled sign embedded into a tree verifies
text: it. Alan and Cynthia pull up, park. Cynthia gets out and
text: looks around. She goes to the front entrance. Alan follows
dialog: her in.
scene_heading: 208 INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY 208
text: A mere skeleton of what it was. Daylight pours in through
text: the faded, burnt slats of wood. Patches of woods have
text: sprouted up. Cynthia wanders in and marvels at it all. Only
text: piles of charcoal signify where furniture was.
text: Alan meanders in from the other and of the house.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Victorian. Looks like it was a
dialog: nice house once.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Yes. I guess appearances can be
dialog: deceiving.
text: She moves out upstairs. He follows her up onto the risky-
text: looking steps.
text: 209 ON THE LANDING 209
text: She reaches a point at the top that looks out over the meadow
text: and pond. She looks out. Alan joins her. Cynthia takes in
text: the view contentedly.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
text: It's dead. It's really dead...
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: She gestures to the house around them.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
text: It's over.
text: Alan smiles. He pulls her close to him. They look into each
text: other's eyes. Neither of them is completely at ease with the
text: other, but there is honest affection. They hug, then kiss.
scene_heading: 210 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - DAY 210
text: It looks almost tranquil. MUSIC UP.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 210A INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY 210A
text: Wasserman walks along, accompanied by a uniformed officer.
dialog: They go into-
scene_heading: 201B INT. BERRISFORD'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 201B
text: where the doctor is in a bed, one leg and one arm in
text: traction. He's talking to his LAWYER as the police officers
dialog: enter.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: (in mid-speech)
dialog: --letters of support could have an
dialog: influence on the court... You
dialog: know, from your peers--?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: (cutting him off)
dialog: I have no peers.
dialog: (turning)
dialog: Hello, Lieutenant.
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Forgive me for not getting up.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Real funny, Doctor. Try this for
dialog: laughs: As soon as you're
dialog: ambulatory, you're going in front
dialog: of a Grand Jury, and you're going
dialog: to be charged with six counts of
dialog: obstruction of justice and two
dialog: counts of assault.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: WASSERMAN(CONT'D)
dialog: Then it gets choice: five counts of
dialog: murder in the first degree, one
dialog: count of murder in the second
dialog: degree. Add the civil liability to
dialog: all that, and you're going to have
dialog: plenty of time to write that book.
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Well. I don't agree with your
dialog: definition of justice, but I
dialog: suppose I obstructed it... All in
dialog: the name of science, of course--
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: (appalled)
dialog: Doctor Berrisford--
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: (hushing him)
dialog: --but as to murder, well,
dialog: Lieutenant, I beg to differ. I
dialog: didn't kill anyone. Why would I?
dialog: I'm only interested in knowledge.
dialog: Cynthia is a unique girl--the
dialog: product of an environment and a
text: philosophy unrivaled in its purity.
dialog: I wanted to understand the depth of
dialog: her commitment, the link between
dialog: psychosis and total immersion
dialog: philosophies, the dark terra
dialog: incognita of the human psyche--
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: (fed up)
dialog: Hey, go chow on a Latin dictionary,
dialog: okay? You can bullshit all you
dialog: want, but how do you account for
dialog: six bodies?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Clearly some unknown variable was a
dialog: factor.
speaker_heading: WASSERMAN
dialog: Yeah? Well, if you didn't kill off
dialog: the therapy group, who did?
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD
dialog: Lieutenant, I'll put it in terms
dialog: even a policeman can understand.
text: He smiles, shrugs the best he can in his plaster cast.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: BERRISFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: It beats the fuck out of me.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 213 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - DAY TRACKING IN 213
scene_heading: 214 INT. UNITY HOUSE - DAY 214
text: Cynthia and Alan are still in each other's arms. Cynthia
text: pulls away.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: What's the matter?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I was just thinking about Gilda.
dialog: Somehow, she knew. She kept
dialog: talking about "him," but I didn't
dialog: know what she meant. She said the
dialog: answer was inside me. Why would
dialog: she say that?
text: Alan doesn't have an answer. She sighs.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Let's go.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: You go down. I'll be out in a
dialog: minute. I just want to... bury
dialog: some memories.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: You sure?
text: She nods. He goes.
text: Cynthia gives a final look around at the deteriorated
text: structure and turns down the stairs.
text: She stands at the top of what remains of the stairs.
text: We FOLLOW HER DOWN. Just as she nears the bottom, the
text: TICKING of a clock is audible. It gets LOUDER. Cynthia
text: reaches the last stop and turns into
dialog: 118.
scene_heading: 215 INT. FOYER - NIGHT 215
text: We FOLLOW HER with a CONTINUOUS PAN. The foyer is new now,
text: completely untouched by fire, just as it was at the beginning
text: of the film. A candelabrum is lit.
text: Cynthia turns and we PAN BACK TO THE STAIRCASE. It is new,
text: unburnt. Two KIDS come scrambling down the stairs laughing.
text: The entranceway, the archway to the front room, the staircase
text: are all intact, just as we saw them in the opening scene.
text: CYNTHIA peers into the kitchen. Two WOMEN in work aprons are
text: kneading bread dough, chopping vegetables. They smile at
dialog: Cynthia.
speaker_heading: WOMAN 1
dialog: Cynthia! Are you staying for
dialog: supper?
text: Cynthia is silent, wide-eyed, taking it all in. She turns
text: towards the front door. Victor is coming in.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: Cynthia. It's good. Come in.
text: She in unable to resist.
scene_heading: 216 INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT 216
text: They walk in. The room is filled with people. There is a
text: fire in the hearth. Children play. Candles illuminate the
text: space. Unity Members smile and great her casually as she
text: passes them.
text: Miriam in talking with a BEARDED MAN intently.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Cynthia, I'm so glad you're here.
text: Ed and Connie are by the fireplace with some others. They
text: smile at Cynthia knowingly.
text: Lana is sitting contentedly on the window seat reading with
dialog: some children.
text: Ralph is crouched with victor in a corner. They are laughing
dialog: warmly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Gilda comes up to her. She is ebullient, happier, healthier
dialog: looking than we've ever seen her.
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: Cynthia, it's so wonderful here,
dialog: but we miss you terribly.
text: Cynthia nears Harris. He smiles at her and kisses her.
text: Everyone in the room turns to her. Harris holds up a shiny
text: and sharp knife with ornamentation on the handle. Cynthia
text: doesn't see it yet.
text: He puts the pointed tip against her chest.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: It's time, Cynthia. It's finally
dialog: time, isn't it?
speaker_heading: EVERYONE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: (fighting the vision)
dialog: You don't exist.
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: I wouldn't say that.
dialog: (he touches her)
dialog: Go on. Take the knife.
text: She can't escape his gaze.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Do it. You know you want to.
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: You know you do, Cynthia.
speaker_heading: VICTOR
dialog: You'll see how beautiful it is.
speaker_heading: SOMEONE ELSE
dialog: You will.
text: Cynthia clasps her hand around the knife at her chest, Harris
text: lets go. She holds it there by herself, completely
text: hypnotized by his words, by his eyes.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: Cynthia, we're only telling you
dialog: this because we love you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 120.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: Beautiful lovechild. All will be
dialog: in balance when you've joined us.
dialog: All will be right when daughter is
dialog: with father.
speaker_heading: SOMEONE
dialog: You're special, Cynthia.
speaker_heading: SOMEONE ELSE
dialog: Scared blood... daughter of the
dialog: father.
text: Cynthia in mortified.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I'm...?
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: Now you remember.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Yes...
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: My own beautiful lovechild.
dialog: Everyone has proven their love to
dialog: me. Now you must.
text: She is weak now. She is about to do it.
text: Her grasp tightens around the knife handle. She's trembling.
text: She takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: No!
text: She jams the knife into Harris' throat and pulls it out.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: No I don't! I don't love you! I
dialog: don't need you!
text: She is crazed. She flies around the room brandishing the
text: knife at everyone. They back off.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: I never loved any of you! I hate
dialog: you! I hate you all! What you did
dialog: was wrong!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 121.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
text: She swats the knife at them all. Victor's arm gets cut.
text: Gilda has to dive away from her. Cynthia is knocking over
text: lamps and chairs in her rage. She is crying hysterically.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: It was WRONG! It was stupid!
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: (saddened)
dialog: Oh, Cynthia.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: I never needed you! Any of you!
text: We are TIGHT ON CYNTHIA. She is winding down, crying with
text: her face buried in her arms.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA (CONT'D)
dialog: I never did...
text: She is still. Gradually, the silence fills with a quiet
speaker_heading: BREEZE.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Cynthia?
text: She drops the knife. The knife is all rusty and corroded.
text: The floor is a charred mass.
text: Cynthia turns around.
text: Alan comes in the front door. The room is again its empty,
text: skeletal self, blackened and silent.
text: Cynthia is trembling.
text: She walks out of the room.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you all right?
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: Let's go.
scene_heading: 217 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - DAY 217
text: She stands on the porch, holding onto a post, trying to calm
text: herself. Alan comes out. As he starts the car, a gust comes
text: up. The trees are thrashed around.
text: The WIND ECHOES through the house.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 122.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: MUSIC UP SOFTLY, EERILY.
text: Cynthia descends the stairs. The station wagon pulls up.
text: She gets inside.
scene_heading: 218 INT. STATION WAGON - DAY 218
text: They pull out. Slowly we see Cynthia collect herself. A
text: sense of hope is evident.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA
dialog: It's going to be okay. I'm going
dialog: to be okay.
scene_heading: 219 EXT. ROAD - DAY 219
text: The car speeds off trailing dust.
text: We see the UNITY HOUSE in the distance. The winds kicks up
dialog: again.
scene_heading: 220 EXT. UNITY HOUSE - DAY 220
text: We are CLOSER. Branches and leaves are being tossed around
text: by violent gusts as we MOVE TOWARD the structure.
text: A teenage GIRL comes running up from the field behind. She
text: is crying. She runs into the house. We FOLLOW HER.
scene_heading: 221 INT. UNITY HOUSE - DAY 221
text: She goes to a far corner and cries some more, angrily,
text: hopelessly.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: (far off)
dialog: Come on, where are you? I hope
dialog: you're not in that house... You
dialog: always got like this and make
dialog: stupid threats that you don't mean!
text: The girl peeks out the corner of the window.
speaker_heading: 222 ANGLE - 222
text: The TEENAGE BOY is in the field beyond.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 123.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: If you're not here on three, I'm
dialog: history. Permanently. One...
dialog: Two... Three! Fine. Good
dialog: riddance.
text: THE GIRL backs away from the window, only more upset now.
text: A hand touches her shoulder. She whirls around.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (startled)
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: HARRIS
dialog: A friend. You're upset.
text: She nods.
speaker_heading: HARRIS (CONT'D)
dialog: What would you say if I could
dialog: promise you eternal bliss?
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Eternal bliss? What do you mean?
text: TRACKING IN on the old knife an the floor. It begins to
text: transform from its rusty and corroded state into a new and
text: shiny knife.
scene_heading: MUSIC UP.
text: A burned, skeletal hand reaches INTO FRAME and takes it.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
