dialog: 
text: BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK
dialog: Written by
dialog: Don McGuire and Millard Kaufman
dialog: Based on the story
dialog: "Bad Day At Hondo"
dialog: by Howard Breslin
speaker_heading: SHOOTING DRAFT
dialog: 
scene_heading: FADE IN BEFORE MAIN TITLE
text: BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT - BLACK ROCK - PART OF TOWN: FOCAL POINT:
scene_heading: RAILROAD STATION
text: abandoned, in an extreme state of dilapidation. The structure
text: is blistered by the resolute sun, the roof is weather-warped.
text: Dry rot and mildew wage a relentless battle against the
text: foundation. Between the building and the tracks is a long,
text: somewhat narrow platform, its floorboards twisted by time,
text: termites and the elements. The match-board overhang of the
text: building, throwing some little shade to a portion of the
text: platform, sags and bellies. From the overhang is appended a
text: rectangular panel on which, in flaky paint, the town is
dialog: identified:
speaker_heading: BLACK ROCK
text: One of the broken wires holding the panel is longer than the
text: other, cocking the sign irregularly.
text: The railroad tracks reach endlessly into the horizon. Past
text: the town on each side stretches the ocean-like prairie, with
text: sand dunes rising and falling monotonously, shouldering each
text: other toward infinity. The morning sun lays over this
text: wasteland of the American Southwest, a gigantic yellow bruise
text: from which heat waves like bloodshot arteries spread
text: themselves over the poisoned sky.
text: A small shack stands next to the station, separated from it
text: by a narrow alleyway and leaning toward the larger building,
text: as if for support. The words POSTAL TELEGRAPH are arced across
text: its dusty vitrine. An old straight-backed chair, reinforced
text: with twisted wire, is tilted against the north-west corner
text: of the shack. In it is Mr. Hastings, the postal telegraph
text: agent, a man of middle years and exorbitant mediocrity. He
text: sits there spinelessly, fingering a wart on his receding
text: chin and, once in a while, for variety, rubbing a knuckle
text: under his watery nose.
scene_heading: FULL SHOT - BLACK ROCK
text: The town is minute, dismal and forgotten, crouching in
text: isolation where the single line of railroad track intersects
text: a secondary dirt road. The twin strips of steel glisten in
text: the fierce sunlight, fencing the dreary plain from the false
text: fronts of the town. In b.g. is the bluff of a black stony
text: mountain. Against this ancient mass the houses of Black Rock's
text: single street*** (See map, P.2A) are scanty in number and
text: insignificant in architecture, a conglomerate paint-peeled
text: modern trussed together with rusty nails and battered tin
text: strips torn from signs.
dialog: The town and the terrain surrounding it have, if nothing
dialog: else, the quality of inertia and immutibility -- nothing
text: moves, not even an insect; nothing breathes, not even the
text: wind. Town and terrain seem to be trapped, caught and held
text: forever in the sullen, abrasive earth.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: STRAIGHT SHOT - STREAMLINER
text: jarring in its power as it ramrods across the desert, its
text: diesel engines pounding. Its horn "WONKS" twice, blasting
text: the shatterable air.
scene_heading: FULL SHOT - BLACK ROCK - ANOTHER ANGLE
dialog: Nothing is changed, nothing is altered. But look close and
text: you will see a small shallow current of wind sweeping lazily
text: across the dirt and dust of the single street. HOLD for a
text: beat, then MAIN TITLE appears. Between the ensuing credits
text: INTERCUT a series of sharp LONG SHOTS. The composition of
text: each shot has that hard, sun-beaten texture of American
text: primitive painting -- pressurized in its simplicity -- best
text: exemplified, perhaps, by the work of Grant Wood.
scene_heading: EXT. SAM'S SANITARY BAR AND GRILL - ANGLE ON DOC VELIE
dialog: assayer and notary public, mortician to the citizens of Black
text: Rock who have departed to a better place, and veterinarian
text: to its lesser animals. An elderly, somewhat untidy gentleman,
text: he sits nonchalantly on a chair outside the Bar &amp; Grill.
text: Idling with him are three or four other loafers, among them
text: Sam, the middle-aged proprietor of the restaurant. Doc glances
text: casually at his watch; no one else moves. The hot wind
text: continues listlessly down the empty street.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. GARAGE - LIZ BROOKS
text: A tall, attractive girl of twenty in dungarees and cotton
text: shirt. She stands just outside the open barn-like door of
text: the garage, staring, from the compulsive force of habit, at
text: the endlessly receding tracks. The sultry wind, its gustiness
text: slightly increased, blows through her fine dark hair.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. PORCH OF HOTEL - COLEY TRIMBLE AND HECTOR DAVID
text: two enormous men. HECTOR is tall, and there is about him a
text: nasty, raw-boned tautness; COLEY is more the anthropoid type --
text: long thick arms and a round, iron casing of a belly. They
text: glance down the street, watching incuriously a dust devil
text: swirling in the wind.
text: Now the CAMERA has completed its probe of the town and its
text: denizens. MAIN TITLE and CREDITS are completed...
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - MR. HASTINGS
text: still spineless in his chair, the chair still tilted against
text: the shack. From o.s. and far away, we hear the horn of the
text: streamliner -- two long "WONKS", a short and a long (engine
dialog: whistle signal for approach to bridge crossing). Hastings
text: straightens up ever so slightly as he reacts to the oncoming
dialog: train.
scene_heading: STRAIGHT SHOT - STREAMLINER
text: moving at tremendous speed.
speaker_heading: BRIDGE
text: with train barrelling toward it. The horn BLASTS -- three
text: short WONKS (engine whistle signal for stopping at next
dialog: station).
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - HASTINGS
text: getting jerkily to his feet, as though charged by a galvanic
text: current. The uncharacteristic speed of his movements throws
text: the tilted chair to the station platform. He raises an arm
text: to shield his watery eyes from the sun...
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
text: (almost inaudible, as
dialog: if to himself)
dialog: Stopping...?
speaker_heading: SHOT - TRAIN
text: heading toward CAMERA, churning across the desert like a
text: juggernaut. It PANS past CAMERA in a blur of speed. CAMERA
text: SWINGS UP on a level with the great iron wheels as the brakes
text: are applied. The wheels shriek agonizingly against the rails,
text: kicking up cinders and a wild flurry of dust. She cuts speed,
text: brakes hissing, and starts to slow down.
scene_heading: LONG SHOT MAIN STREET - BLACK ROCK
text: SHOOTING from rear of town, toward the railroad tracks. The
text: townspeople step out, frowning, cautious, disturbed. The
text: secure ritual of the train passing through, never stopping,
text: has somehow, for some unknown reason, been violated.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - DOC VELIE
text: as his mouth tightens. His air of placidity vanishes, leaving
text: his features disturbed.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - LIZ BROOKS
text: Her fine young face stiffens almost imperceptibly. Her eyes
text: are coated with a vague emptiness. She seems confused as she
text: halfturns toward the hotel.
scene_heading: REVERSE SHOT - WHAT SHE SEES
text: Coley Trimble and Hector David, standing on the porch of the
text: hotel. They seem tense, responding variously to what might
text: be fear. Coley's nostrils flare, his flat ugly mouth
text: compresses. He looks profoundly serious. Hector wipes a glob
text: of dusty sweat from the socket of an eye and blinks rapidly.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - HASTINGS
text: as he stands in surprise, nervously alert, watching the train
text: as it comes to a complete stop. His jaw droops with the
text: slackness of fear.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. STATION PLATFORM
text: with the train stationary before it. A sleek steel door of a
text: pullman clangs open. A colored porter carrying a suitcase
text: walks down the wrought-iron steps. He is stately, gray-haired
text: and lean, with the almost finical tidiness travelers associate
text: with trainmen. The man behind him is big-shouldered, a granite-
text: like wedge of a man with calm, piercing eyes. There is about
text: him an air of monumental dependability and quiet humor, but
text: his eyes are those of a man who has lately lived in somber
text: familiarity with pain. His left arm hangs from his shoulder
text: with that lifeless rigidity of paralysis, while the hand is
text: hidden in his pocket.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - MACREEDY AND PORTER
text: The porter puts the suitcase on the platform. In the distance
text: the town and its people are seen staring silently,
text: motionlessly. The big man glances toward them. He smiles a
text: sad, distasteful greeting to the town, its wretched dust.
text: its mean, modest buildings. The porter disappears into the
text: train as the conductor enters scene. He turns slowly,
text: following Macreedy's gaze...
speaker_heading: CONDUCTOR
text: (softly, staring at
dialog: the towns people)
dialog: Man. They look woebegone and far
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: I'll only be here twenty-four hours.
speaker_heading: CONDUCTOR
dialog: In a place like this, it could be a
dialog: lifetime.
dialog: (turning to face
dialog: Macreedy)
dialog: Good luck, Mr. Macreedy.
text: Macreedy nods his thanks. The conductor signals the engineer
text: (o.s.) and steps on the train. The diesel's claxon blasts
text: the torrid air ominously. The train slowly, smoothly, begins
text: to move, picking up speed. The cars slip past until, quite
text: suddenly, the Streamliner is gone. For a moment Macreedy
text: watches it. Then, quite unconsciously, he takes a package of
text: cigarettes from his left hand pocket, taps the last one free
text: of the pack, sticks it between his lips and, crumpling the
text: empty pack, drops it beside the tracks. He takes a cardboard
text: book of matches, flicks it open, bends a match in half with
text: agile fingers, and with a sure frictional motion scrapes the
text: head against the sandpaper guard. The match flares, the
text: cigarette is lit. Macreedy inhales, exhales deeply, and turns
text: to pick up his suitcase. Then he sees Hastings, who walks
text: slowly, almost painfully, to him. His Adam's apple grapples
text: protestingly with his collar. After a moment he controls it
dialog: sufficiently to talk...
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: You for Black Rock?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (easily)
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (uneasily)
dialog: There must be some mistake. I'm
dialog: Hastings, the telegraph agent. Nobody
dialog: told me the train was stopping.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (with a ghost of a
dialog: grin)
dialog: They didn't?
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (upset)
dialog: I just said they didn't, and they
dialog: ought to. What I -- want to know,
dialog: why didn't they?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: Probably didn't think it was
dialog: important.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: Important?! It's the first time the
dialog: streamliner stopped here in four
dialog: years.
dialog: (swallowing nervously)
dialog: You being met? You visiting folks or
dialog: something? I mean, whatd'ya want?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I want to go to Adobe Flat. Any cabs
dialog: available?
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (as if he hadn't heard
dialog: right; as if he wanted
dialog: everyone in town to
dialog: know)
dialog: Adobe Flat?!
text: (he gulps, recovers
dialog: slightly)
text: No cabs.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Where's the hotel?
text: Hastings looks at him blankly. The thousand-yard stare of a
text: hypnotic glazes his features.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (patiently)
dialog: I asked where's the hotel?
dialog: Hastings points.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Thanks.
text: With his suitcase, he cuts across a weedy path, running into
text: Black Rock's single street. For a moment, Hastings stares
text: after him; then he breaks hurriedly, entering telegraph
text: agent's shack.
scene_heading: INT. POSTAL TELEGRAPH OFFICE
text: as Hastings, fumbling, picks up the phone...
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (into mouthpiece)
dialog: Hello, Pete? Now, listen...
scene_heading: REVERSE SHOT - MAIN STREET - BLACK ROCK
text: SHOOTING down the street as Macreedy slowly walks toward the
text: hotel. Not a person has moved, each eye is glued on the
dialog: stranger.
text: The hollow rasp of Macreedy's tread on the wooden platform
text: of the "pavement" seems shatteringly loud in the enveloping
dialog: silence...
speaker_heading: CLOSE SHOT - LIZ
text: as she follows the man's movement.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: CLOSE ANGLE - ON MACREEDY
text: as he walks along. He feels the eyes of everyone following
text: him, glaring at him. He halts, looks around. The townspeople
text: continue to eye him brazenly, yet with an almost animal
text: incuriosity. He grins and walks on past a cluster of five or
text: six RFD mail boxes and a road sign [1], its paint peeling,
text: its face punctured by three or four bullets from a drunk's
dialog: pistol long ago.
scene_heading: SHOT - MACREEDY
text: heading toward the hotel. In b.g. is a relatively small farm
text: equipment yard compressed between a general store (which
text: Macreedy has just passed) and the hotel just ahead. In the
text: yard are a few tractors, and among them huddles a tiny office.
text: It is empty; the front window is thick with dust. On it,
text: etched by an anonymous, childish finger, is a skull and
text: crossbones. Running diagonally across is the printed legend:
scene_heading: T.J. HATES J.S.
text: Macreedy notes the inscription with a sort of wry bemusement.
text: He walks on, reaching the facade of the weather-beaten hotel.
text: A gust of wind swirls down the street, momentarily engulfing
text: Macreedy and the entire area in a sudden eddying whirlpool.
dialog: As it subsides...
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - MACREEDY
text: As he peers through the dust toward the dingy hotel. It has
text: a narrow stoop and outsize bay windows on each side. Macreedy
text: mounts the hotel steps. At the top of the steps Coley Trimble
text: and Hector David watch him silently. Hector is large and
text: leanly muscular, yet Coley looms over him like a battleship.
text: He is a gross behemoth of a man, with sharp flinty eyes the
text: size of glistening pinpoints and a slack, oversized jaw.
text: Both men wear modern Western work clothes, but there is one
text: incongruous accessory which Hector affects. Around his thick
text: wrist is a watch with a large flat face and an elaborately
text: tooled leather strap -- a cheap reproduction of one of those
dialog: expensive Swiss timepieces which, among many distinguished
dialog: accomplishments, tells the day of the week, the month of the
dialog: year, the phase of the moon, etc., etc.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (slowing up)
dialog: 'Afternoon.
dialog: No reaction from Hector.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (blocking doorway)
dialog: Anything I can do for you?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: You run this hotel?
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (pleasantly)
dialog: Then there's nothing you can do for
dialog: me.
text: He brushes past Coley and enters.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (turning to Coley)
dialog: Find Smith!
text: Coley nods and heads down the street. Hector enters the hotel.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL
text: It is a typical small town hotel, but crummier, with a tiny
text: lobby. Macreedy is waiting at the empty desk as Hector strolls
text: in, flopping his enormous bulk into a nicked and mothy chair.
text: He picks up a newspaper, but his eyes remain on Macreedy.
text: Macreedy waits patiently for the absent clerk. For a moment,
text: he studies the open registration ledger; his eyes rove from
text: the ink-splotched blotter up over the desk to one of those
text: World War II banners, the imitation silk now stained and
text: faded. It depicts a shrieking eagle rampant, clutching The
text: Flag in a claw. Under it, the legend:
scene_heading: "GOD BLESS AMERICA"
text: Near it, a tacky placard proclaims:
dialog: DO ALL THE GOOD YOU CAN,
dialog: BY ALL THE MEANS YOU CAN,
dialog: IN ALL THE WAYS YOU CAN,
dialog: AT ALL THE TIMES YOU CAN,
dialog: TO ALL THE PEOPLE YOU CAN,
text: AS LONG AS EVER YOU CAN.
text: Feeling the eyes of Hector on him, Macreedy turns. Hector
text: meets his gaze with bland, insolent interest. Now a young
text: man (his name is PETE) comes out of a small room behind the
text: registration desk and walks up to it. There is a softness
dialog: about his regular features, a certain indefinable sugariness
text: about his mouth. He seems tight-lipped, for lorn and uneasy
text: as he faces Macreedy across the counter.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (pleasantly)
dialog: I'd like a room.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: All filled up.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Got any idea where I might --
speaker_heading: PETE
text: (stiffly, shaking his
dialog: head)
dialog: This is 1945, mister. There's been a
dialog: war on.
text: Macreedy looks at the young man with impeccable tolerance.
text: Without shifting his gaze, he slowly lets fall his small
text: suitcase. It thuds softly on the frayed carpet.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I thought it ended a couple of months
dialog: ago.
speaker_heading: PETE
text: Yeah, but the O.P.A. lingers on.
text: Macreedy looks down at the open ledger on the desk before
text: him. The clerk reaches out to close it. Gently, yet firmly,
text: Macreedy stops him, reopening the big book. He studies it, a
text: finger straying unconsciously inside his collar. He [...] on
text: it to relieve the starchy stiffness.
text: Pete begins to fidget...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: You don't know about the O.P.A...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (without looking up)
dialog: Tell me.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Well, for establishments with less'n
dialog: fifty rooms hotel keepers got to
dialog: report regularly about...
text: His voice fades desperately.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: ...about tenants and... and...
dialog: registration...
dialog: (drawing himself up)
dialog: There are penalties imposed...
text: Again his voice trails off.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (eyes still on the
dialog: ledger)
dialog: You seem to have lots of vacancies.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: Well... as I said...
text: Macreedy leans over the counter to a rack of keys. He runs
text: his splayed fingers over the key rack as...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Lots of vacancies.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: They're everyone of 'em locked up.
dialog: Some are show rooms...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Yes...?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (with touching
dialog: sincerity)
dialog: ...for cattle buyers, feed salesmen.
dialog: The others -- they're spoken for,
dialog: rented to cowboys, ranch hands...
dialog: (Macreedy listens
dialog: respectfully)
dialog: They pay by the month. For when they
dialog: come into town. We provide for their
dialog: every wish and comfort.
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: You understand...?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Not really. But while I'm pondering
dialog: it, get a room ready. Just for
dialog: tonight.
dialog: (picking key from
dialog: rack at random)
dialog: This one.
text: Pete opens his mouth but no sound comes out. [...] at Hector.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR
text: glowering at Pete.
scene_heading: TWO SHOT - MACREEDY AND PETE
text: as Macreedy signs the ledger.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (signing)
dialog: Sure could use a bath. Where is it?
text: He picks up the key.
speaker_heading: PETE
text: Head of the stairs.
text: Macreedy nods, reaches for the bag at his feet. Then he
text: hesitates, looks at Hector.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I don't know just why you're
dialog: interested -- but the name's Macreedy.
dialog: I'm...
dialog: (grins)
dialog: It's all in the ledger.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: (slowly, his eyes
text: glued to Macreedy's
dialog: stiff arm)
dialog: You look like you need a hand.
text: Macreedy says nothing. The wales along his face harden. He
text: picks up his bag and climbs the stairs. As he disappears,
text: Hector lumbers to the desk and grabs the ledger.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (reading aloud)
text: John J. Macreedy. From Los Angeles.
dialog: (looking up)
dialog: I wanna know everything he does,
dialog: Pete. Check every call -- any mail.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: And in the meantime...?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (grinning harshly)
dialog: In the meantime, I'll crowd him a
dialog: little...
dialog: (looking up the stairs)
dialog: ...see if he's got any iron in his
dialog: blood...
text: As Pete bites his lower lip thoughtfully,
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE:
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY - MACREEDY
text: in a new bathrobe, before a cracked, discolored mirror. He
text: draws a safety razor down his face, completing his shave;
text: then he wipes a hand over the mirror, which clouds with steam
text: almost as fast as he can clear it. o.s., the SOUND of bath
text: water gurgling down the tub drain. He runs a tentative finger
text: inside the collar of his robe, pulling loose a price tag. He
text: drops it carefully into a wastebasket. He turns on the faucet
text: at the sink to rinse his shaving brush. The rusty pipes cough
text: and rumble, roaring as a trickle of water arrives while the
text: drain sucks loudly at its departure. He dries the razor,
text: turns off the faucet and exits.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - ANGLE ON MACREEDY
text: As he walks down the dark, narrow hall. He wears the bathrobe
text: and slippers; a large towel is draped over his head, like a
text: prize fighter. He stops outside a door, pushes the towel
text: from his head to his neck and puts his hand on the knob. He
text: is about to insert the key when he tenses. Slowly, silently,
text: he turns the knob and throws open the door.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Next to the door, in the corner of the small, sparsely
text: furnished room is Macreedy's suitcase, open, its contents
text: askew and scattered over the dusty floor. On the bed sprawls
text: Hector David, his gigantic body straining the springs. He
text: lies on his back, hands clasped easily under his head, thick
text: legs crossed, his Stetson tilted over his low forehead. He
text: is completely unconcerned by Macreedy's entrance. For a moment
text: Macreedy stares at him. Then...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (slightly amused)
dialog: I think you have the wrong room.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (not budging)
dialog: You think so?
text: Slowly, his eyes still on Macreedy, Hector takes off his
text: elaborate wrist watch and slides it gently into his pants
dialog: pocket.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What else you got on your mind?
text: Macreedy pauses and takes in the situation. He refuses to be
text: baited.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Nothing, I guess.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: If you had a mind, boy, you'd of
dialog: heard what Pete downstairs said. He
dialog: said these here rooms are for us
dialog: cowboys. For our every wish and
dialog: comfort.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: And this, I guess, is yours?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: When I'm in town. And I'm in town,
dialog: as any fool can see. You see that,
dialog: don't you, boy?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I guess I do. Would you mind very
dialog: much if I sort of...
text: (he gestures toward
dialog: his suitcase and
dialog: clothing)
dialog: ...clean up this mess and get another
dialog: room?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Not at all. But if you want this
dialog: room real bad...
dialog: (he raises his enormous
text: bulk to a sitting
dialog: position, rubbing
dialog: the knuckles of one
dialog: big fist with the
dialog: palm of his other
dialog: hand)
dialog: ...we could maybe settle your claim
dialog: without all this talk.
dialog: (no answer from
dialog: Macreedy)
dialog: If a man don't claim what's rightfully
dialog: his'n, he's nuthin'. What do you
dialog: think?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I guess so.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You guess so. But still you ain't
dialog: claimin' this room?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I guess not.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You're all the time guessin', boy.
dialog: Don't you ever know anything?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: One thing I know. Since I got off
dialog: the train, I've been needled. Why?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (after a beat, slowly)
dialog: I guess I don't rightly know.
text: For a moment their eyes lock. Then Macreedy goes to his
text: suitcase and throws his clothes in it. As he goes out the
dialog: door...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY - FULL SHOT - SAM AND THE LOAFERS
text: They sit around, each with his own thoughts. They are
text: generally stolid; only Sam seems nervous. He looks up eagerly
text: as Doc Velie enters the lobby. As he joins Sam...
text: Sam walks light for a big man, Doc.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (straight)
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: You know who!
text: (Doc grins impishly;
text: Sam's anger subsides)
dialog: What do you think, Doc?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Why ask me? He's no salesman, that's
dialog: sure.
dialog: (again the impish
dialog: grin)
text: Unless he's peddling dynamite.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: (squirming visibly)
dialog: Maybe he's a cop, or something...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Ever see a cop with a stiff arm?
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: (squinting thoughtfully)
dialog: Maybe his arm's all right. Maybe
text: he's just holding tight to something
text: in his pocket...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (scoffing)
dialog: Like what? A pistol? A stick of T-N-
dialog: T?
dialog: (gleefully)
dialog: To blow up this whole mangy, miserable
dialog: town!
dialog: (with sudden, almost
dialog: naive, seriousness)
dialog: Why are you so interested, Sam?
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Who, me?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I mean, if I was that interested...
text: (his eyes look up
dialog: toward the hotel
dialog: stairs o.s.)
dialog: ...I'd ask him.
text: Sam follows Doc's gaze...
scene_heading: REVERSE SHOT - WHAT THEY SEE 35X1
text: Macreedy walks down the stairs. Pete looks up from the desk.
text: He is about to dart behind the partition when...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Hey! Hold it!
text: He walks to the desk, smiling at Pete. In b.g., Doc, Sam and
text: the loafers watch.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Got any cigarettes?
text: Pete studies him, then bends under the counter, coming up
text: with a pack. Doc leaves Sam and is slowly walking toward the
text: stranger, eyeing him curiously.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: This is all.
text: Macreedy throws the money on the desk and opens the pack,
text: dexterously using the fingers of his left hand.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: How long you staying?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: In my new room, you mean?
dialog: (flatly)
dialog: I'm staying.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: I mean, in the hotel.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
text: Just about twenty-four hours.
dialog: (sharply)
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (flustered)
dialog: I... I was just askin'.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (evenly)
dialog: Why? You expecting a convention?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (doggedly)
dialog: I was just askin'.
text: Macreedy looks at him, inhales deeply on his cigarette then,
text: as he slowly lets the smoke out, removes the cigarette and
text: looks at it.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Stale.
text: Now Doc is at the desk not far from Macreedy. Macreedy starts
text: out, then turns to Pete.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Where can I rent a car?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: I don't know.
text: Macreedy smiles and sighs tiredly. Then...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (as to a child)
dialog: Let's put it this way -- if I had a
dialog: car and if I wanted to put gas in
dialog: it, where would I go?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (refusing to cooperate)
dialog: But you don't have a car.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (to Macreedy)
dialog: You might try the garage at the end
dialog: of the street.
text: Macreedy pauses, looking at Doc, who blandly returns his
dialog: stare.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Thanks.
text: Doc nods. Macreedy smiles and walks toward the door; Pete,
text: Doc et al watching him. He goes out.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: As Macreedy walks down hotel steps, a station wagon pulls up
text: just before him. Tied with a rope to the right front fender
text: is a magnificent eight-point buck. A stain of dry blood weaves
text: an uneven course down his glossy flank from an unmistakable
text: bullet hole in his shoulder. Two men get out of the car; one
text: of them is Coley Trimble. He sees Macreedy coming toward
text: him. He stands motionless in the center of the narrow
text: pavement, picking at his nose with the detachment of a child.
text: The other man is broad and excessively masculine as he swings
text: out from behind the wheel. He walks around the car, joining
text: Coley at the curb. Macreedy comes on. The man with Coley
text: looks at the stranger with colossal indifference, as
text: expressionless as the soil of Black Rock. His handsome face,
text: under a dusty hunting cap, is taut and hard and wind-shaven.
text: Next to Coley he stands motionless, except for the wisp of
text: smoke from a black Cuban cigarette between his thin lips. In
text: b.g., the loafers who had been ensconced in the hotel lobby
text: move out the door and stand on the porch. They watch Macreedy,
text: Coley and Reno Smith, the handsome, taut-faced man. Silence
text: soems to settle over everything. It is Macreedy who breaks
dialog: it...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
text: (grinning wearily at
dialog: Coley)
dialog: Here we go again.
text: Gently he walks around Coley and Reno Smith and continues
text: down the street. Coley's eyes follow him. Smith goes up the
text: steps of the hotel and enters the lobby. Coley quickly follows
text: him. The loafers on the porch go back inside.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL LOBBY
text: The loafers resume their familiar places as Smith walks
text: briskly to the clerk's desk. Pete, in anticipation, opens
text: the hotel register, places it before Smith
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (deferentially,
text: gesturing toward the
dialog: open register)
dialog: That's all I know about him, Mr.
dialog: Smith.
text: Smith doesn't answer; he looks up thoughtfully. His eyes
text: harden almost imperceptibly as he sees Coley, across the
text: narrow room, looking out the window after Macreedy.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (to Coley's back)
dialog: Sit down.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (spinning to face him)
dialog: I was only...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Sit down.
text: Coley sits in the nearest chair. Beyond Smith, still resting
text: easily against the high counter of Pete's desk, the gigantic
text: figure of Hector appears at the top of the stairs. He comes
text: down and joins Smith.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (after a pause)
dialog: Pretty cool guy.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Doesn't push easy?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (frowning)
dialog: That's it -- that's just it. He pushes
dialog: too easy. Maybe we oughtta...
text: He hesitates as Doc Velie sidles amiably into earshot.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: What do you want, Doc?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Nothing.
dialog: (archly)
dialog: I was just wondering what all you
dialog: people were worrying about.
text: (Smith looks at him
dialog: coldly)
dialog: Not that I have the slightest idea.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: You wonder too much, and you talk
dialog: too much.
dialog: (pauses)
dialog: It's a bad parlay, Doc.
speaker_heading: DOC
text: I hold no truck with silence.
dialog: (impishly)
dialog: I got nothing to hide.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (suddenly towering
dialog: over Doc)
dialog: What're you tryin' to say?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Nothing, man. It's just, you worry
dialog: about the stranger only if you look
dialog: at him...
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: ...from a certain aspect.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: How do you look at him, Doc?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (firmly)
text: With the innocence of a fresh-laid
dialog: egg.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (after a pause)
dialog: Keep it up, Doc. Be funny. Make bad
dialog: jokes.
text: (he starts to walk
text: toward the window,
dialog: Doc and Hector
dialog: following him)
dialog: And some day I'll have Coley wash
dialog: out your mouth with lye.
text: Smith looks thoughtfully out the window.
scene_heading: REVERSE SHOT - WHAT HE SEES
text: Macreedy, down the end of the block, saunters easily up to
text: Liz's garage.
scene_heading: EXT. LIZ'S GARAGE - FULL SHOT
text: The garage, without a door, opens on the street. Against the
text: front of the building is parked a battered bicycle. On one
text: of the barnlike walls a boy of nine is drawing laboriously
text: with a piece of chalk. He puts the last flourish to a skull
text: and crossbones identical with that seen earlier on the window
text: of the equipment yard office. Macreedy stops a few feet from
text: him, waiting until the boy prints "T.J.". As he steps back
dialog: to admire his handiwork...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Hi, T.J.
text: T.J. nods. He approaches the wall, raising his chalk.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: This your garage?
dialog: T.J.
dialog: Nope.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Where's the man it belongs to?
dialog: T.J.
dialog: Ain't a man.
text: He pauses. As Macreedy opens his mouth to interrogate
dialog: further...
dialog: T.J.
dialog: Lady runs this garage.
text: Again a pause. T.J. has just completed the final letter of
text: the word "HATES". And again as Macreedy opens his mouth...
dialog: T.J.
dialog: She's not here.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Where'd she go?
dialog: T.J.
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: I dunno. Somewhere.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: When will she be back?
dialog: T.J.
dialog: I dunno. Sometime.
text: Again the pause. T.J. steps back, having completed his work,
text: which, of course, broadcasts the fact that "T.J. HATES J.S.".
text: And again as Macreedy begins to speak...
dialog: T.J.
text: In about ten minutes.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (with a grin)
dialog: Thanks.
text: T.J. turns, pulls the bike away from the building, completes
text: a fastidious "pony express" and peddles furiously out of
dialog: scene.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - FULL SHOT
text: as Macreedy, after a moment's hesitation, starts down it.
text: From the far end, at the telegraph agent's shack, a figure
text: starts running toward Macreedy. It is Hastings. INTERCUT
text: between the two men. Hastings, in his concentration, doesn't
text: see the stranger until he is almost upon him. He slows down,
text: suddenly, awkwardly, to a self-conscious walk. Macreedy grins
text: at him, passes on, shaking his head speculatively. Hastings,
text: with a parting glance, gallops up the hotel steps.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL LOBBY - FULL SHOT
text: Smith, Coley, Hector, Pete, Doc, Sam et al are still in
text: evidence. Smith is in a tight little group at the desk with
text: Coley, Hector and Pete. Doc has taken a position at the
text: window, looking out. Hastings bursts in and half-runs to
dialog: Smith...
scene_heading: ANGLE FAVORING SMITH AND HASTINGS
text: as the excited telegraph agent speaks.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: I called the Circle T. He ain't got
dialog: business there -- not if they don't
dialog: know him. Right, Mr. Smith?
text: Smith ignores him, thinking. Hastings breathes heavily.
dialog: Finally...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (to Hastings)
dialog: Send a wire to Nick Gandi in Los
dialog: Angeles. Tell him to find out all he
dialog: can about John J. Macreedy. Tell him
dialog: I want to know fast. Sign my name.
text: Hastings nods, scribbling on a pad.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: What was that?
speaker_heading: SMITH
scene_heading: Nick Gandi. G-A-N-D-I. Care of the
dialog: Blake Hotel.
text: Hastings nods and hurriedly exits.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: Who's Gandi?
text: Smith looks at Coley, trying to decide if the question in
dialog: any way challenges his authority. He concludes not...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: He's a private detective.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I drive to L.A. now and then.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (slightly worried)
dialog: He'll get us the dope?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: He'll get us anything, for twenty
dialog: bucks a day and expenses.
dialog: (Hector frowns)
dialog: Hector, you worry too fast and too
dialog: easy.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's just, I don't like it.
speaker_heading: COLEY
text: Maybe he's just passing through.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Don't bet on it. He can only mean
dialog: trouble.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (smiles faintly)
dialog: Hector, you're jumpy as a stall horse.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (doggedly)
dialog: We oughtta see him... talk to him.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: About what?
dialog: (Hector doesn't answer)
dialog: What'll we talk to him about? The
dialog: birds, the bees? The weather? The
dialog: crops?
dialog: (pauses)
dialog: You tried -- where'd it get you?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (uncomfortably)
dialog: I only thought...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Sure. You only thought.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: What do we do?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: What do you do? You wait. Like Pete
dialog: here. Right, Pete?
text: Pete nods, his brow furrowed uncomfortably in a frown.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: That's all you do. But while you
dialog: wait... I talk to him.
text: At this point the brittle silence is cracked by...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (o.s.)
dialog: Hey!
text: Smith and those around him look off in the direction of Doc.
scene_heading: DOC VELIE - AT THE WINDOW
text: peering out. He turns in the direction of Smith and the
dialog: others.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Now what do you know?
dialog: (beaming)
text: Mr. Macreedy seems to be heading for
dialog: the jail.
dialog: (impishly)
dialog: Now what do you suppose he'd want to
dialog: see the Sheriff about?
text: Smith goes to the window, edging Doc to one side with a
text: shoulder. He looks out grimly.
scene_heading: REVERSE SHOT - WHAT HE SEES
text: Macreedy, down the street, cuts up the steps of the jail.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Smith staring out the window with a frown. Doc watching him
text: out of the corner of his eye, a bemused expression crossing
text: his puckish features.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. JAIL
text: ANGLE on Macreedy as he enters the jail. It is small and
text: dirty, with only a tired desk, two chairs and the usual police
text: posters on the wall. One side leads to the cell block and
text: Macreedy heads for it.
text: ANGLE from interior of cell block comprising two cells, both
text: of which are open. A man is asleep in the lower bunk of the
text: front cell. The keys are in the lock. Macreedy shakes his
text: head and starts to close the creaking cell door. Sheriff TIM
text: HORN, the man in the bunk, lifts his head, blinking his bleary
text: eyes. He is in terrible shape.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Hold it, friend.
text: He manages to crawl off the bunk and out toward Macreedy.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: I ain't hankerin' to get locked in
dialog: my own jail.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Sorry. I thought you were a guest.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: As it happens, I'm the host.
text: He walks out of the cell, Macreedy following him into the
dialog: office.
scene_heading: SHOT - OF THE TWO
text: Tim breaks out a bottle of booze, starts to take a snort,
text: then stops, offers it to Macreedy.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Snort?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: No, thanks.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Don't blame you. It's awful.
text: He takes a belt that would incapacitate half the county. He
text: finishes, smacks his lips, lays the bottle down, and falls
text: into a chair. He looks up at Macreedy.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (suddenly mean)
dialog: What're you lookin' at?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (easy)
dialog: You tell me.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (after a beat, relaxing)
dialog: I ain't always this bad -- just that
dialog: last night me and my pal Doc Velie,
dialog: we did a little celebratin'. At least
dialog: I did.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What were you celebrating?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: You name it.
dialog: (studies Macreedy)
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: My name's Macreedy. I came in on the
text: Streamliner.
text: Tim studies him, trying to focus.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: You what?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I said I came in...
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: You ain't from around here. Up Tucson
dialog: way -- Phoenix? Mesa? You ain't
dialog: sellin' cattle nor seed nor nothin'
dialog: like that?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: No.
dialog: (sighs, then distinctly
dialog: as to a child)
dialog: All I want from you is a little
dialog: information. I've got to get to a
dialog: place called Adobe Flat.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (reacts; then, tight-
dialog: lipped)
dialog: This ain't no information bureau.
text: Macreedy starts to say something, then stops. Reconsidering...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: One thing about Black Rock --
dialog: everybody's polite. Makes for gracious
dialog: living.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Nobody asked you here.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: How do you know?
text: (he moves toward the
text: door, with a rueful
dialog: grin)
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (starting after him)
dialog: What about Adobe Flat?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'm looking for a man named Komako.
text: The Sheriff reaches for his bottle. In his haste he drops
text: it. Macreedy's hand moves quickly, catching the bottle before
text: it hits the floor.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Almost a disaster.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (sinking back in his
dialog: chair)
dialog: A fate worse'n death.
dialog: (he takes the bottle
dialog: from Macreedy)
dialog: You move fast for a crip... for a
dialog: big man.
text: For a moment heavy silence. Finally...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What about Komako?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: If there's no further questions...
text: Macreedy grins harshly and exits. Tim watches him go, then
text: slowly reaches for the bottle. He pauses, looks at his shaking
text: hand. Then he withdraws it and just sits in the chair staring
text: blindly ahead, seeing nothing.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: Frowning, deep in thought, Macreedy walks down the dusty
text: street. As he reaches the hotel...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (o.s.)
dialog: Mr. Macreedy.
text: Macreedy stops, looks toward Smith as he walks out to meet
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: That's the friendliest word I've
dialog: heard since I got here.
text: As Smith joins him, he walks on. Smith falls in step beside
dialog: him. GO WITH THEM.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (grins boyishly)
dialog: My name is Smith. I own the Triple-
dialog: Bar ranch.
text: (holds out his hand;
dialog: Macreedy shakes it)
dialog: I want to apologize for some of the
dialog: folks in town.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
text: They act like they're sitting on a
dialog: keg.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: A keg...? Of what?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I don't know. Maybe diamonds. Maybe
dialog: gunpowder.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (disarmingly)
dialog: No. Nothing like that. We're a little
dialog: suspicious of strangers is all.
text: Hangover from the old days. The old
dialog: West.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I thought the tradition of the old
dialog: West was hospitality.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (with a sincere smile)
dialog: I'm trying to be hospitable, Mr.
dialog: Macreedy.
text: (boyishly pushes his
text: dusty cap back on
dialog: his head)
dialog: Going to be around for a while?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Could be.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: How would you like to go hunting
dialog: tomorrow? I'd be proud to have you
dialog: as my guest.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Thanks, but I'm afraid not.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (with admirable candor)
dialog: You mean, because of your arm?
dialog: (slaps Macreedy's
dialog: shoulder in a
dialog: friendly,
dialog: understanding gesture)
dialog: I knew a man once, lost an arm in a
dialog: threshing accident. Used to hunt all
dialog: the time.
dialog: (almost too blandly)
dialog: But he was quite a man. He...
dialog: (pauses; then, with
dialog: discreet and charming
dialog: gravity)
dialog: I'm sorry. I... What I mean is -- if
dialog: there's anything I can do while you're
dialog: around...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'm looking for...
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Never mind. Thanks, anyway.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: You're looking for what, Mr. Macreedy?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (eyeing him)
text: A man named Komako.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (no hesitation)
dialog: Komako -- Sure, I remember him --
dialog: Japanese farmer. Never had a chance.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: No?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: He got here in '41 -- just before
dialog: Pearl Harbor. Three months later he
dialog: was shipped to one of those relocation
dialog: centers.
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: Tough.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Which one did he go to?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Who knows?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: You think maybe if I wrote him, the
dialog: letter would be forwarded?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: I'm sure it would. Write your letter.
dialog: I'll see it gets out tonight.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: It wouldn't be too much trouble?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: No trouble at all.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Funny. Because I think it would be a
dialog: great deal of trouble for you. It's
dialog: been a great deal of trouble for me.
text: At this point they are in front of...
scene_heading: EXT. LIZ'S GARAGE
text: Macreedy stops, as does Smith. He looks keenly at Smith as
text: he takes from his inner jacket pocket a half-dozen letters...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I wrote these letters to Komako.
dialog: They weren't forwarded. They were
dialog: returned -- address unknown.
text: (he smiles grimly at
dialog: Smith)
dialog: So I guess there's nothing you can
dialog: do for me, after all.
text: Smith opens his mouth to reply when the NOISE of a jeep o.s.
text: interrupts him. The jeep comes INTO SHOT. Liz Brooks, at the
text: wheel, cuts the engine and jumps out. Smith ambles silently
text: to a wall and leans against it. Liz reaches behind the
text: driver's seat and hoists, with both hands and some effort, a
text: five-gallon drum of axle grease from the floor of the jeep.
text: As she rests it on the rear fender...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (going to her)
dialog: Need a little help?
text: The girl looks at Smith, who has made no attempt to help
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I can manage.
text: She lifts the drum to the ground.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Well, I need a little help.
text: (she looks at him
dialog: questioningly)
dialog: I'd like to rent your jeep.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: It'll be two dollars an hour, gas
dialog: extra, and ten dollars for my time.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (to Liz)
dialog: Aren't you going to ask him where he
dialog: wants to go?
text: Liz looks from Smith to Macreedy, puzzled.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: He wants to go to Adobe Flat.
text: Liz hesitates. Macreedy notes her confusion as her eyes seek
text: Smith's for instructions. Quickly he moves in...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: The road's marked?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Yeah. It's about six -- seven miles
dialog: down...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Then I won't need your time.
text: Macreedy hands her a bill. She fumbles with it, not knowing
text: what else to do. Her eyes drift to Macreedy's stiff arm...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (uneasily)
dialog: I thought you might... need a little
dialog: help.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I can manage.
text: He steps toward the jeep as...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Liz. Do you have a license to rent
dialog: cars? You could get into trouble.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: It's all right. I won't mention it
text: to the Sheriff.
text: He steps into jeep and, with one hand expertly manipulating
text: the controls, drives off.
scene_heading: MED. SHOT - SMITH AND LIZ
text: Smith turns his attention to the girl...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: You shouldn't have done that.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I thought it would be better if he
dialog: went out there and got done with it.
text: (Smith looks at her
dialog: sharply)
dialog: I mean, what could he find out?
text: For a moment Smith doesn't answer. Instead, with a half frown,
text: he lifts the bill Macreedy had given her from Liz's hand.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (as he studies it)
dialog: This is liable to be the hardest ten
dialog: dollars you ever earned in your life.
text: He crumples it, pokes the wad in her hand and walks off down
dialog: the street as...
speaker_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE:
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. JAIL - FULL SHOT - DAY
text: Tim sits in his chair, still staring sightlessly at the
text: whiskey bottle. Smith enters. He looks from Tim to the bottle
text: on the table, then back to Tim.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (after a beat,
dialog: disinterestedly)
dialog: What did he want -- the stranger?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (abstractedly)
dialog: He asked about Komako.
dialog: (looking up at Smith)
dialog: You think he'll kick up a storm?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (easily)
dialog: A storm? About what?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: I don't know. All I know, I don't
dialog: want trouble around here.
dialog: (pauses awkwardly,
dialog: then)
dialog: Never again.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Trouble? You don't know anything
dialog: about Komako, now do you, Tim?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: I do not. That's the point.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: The point is, what you don't know
dialog: can't hurt you.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Maybe there's something I ought to
dialog: know. Maybe I ought to ask you...
text: before the stranger comes back and
text: starts breathing down my neck.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (a faint smile)
dialog: Tim, you're a lost ball in the high
dialog: weeds. I told you a long time ago,
dialog: nothing happened for you to worry
dialog: about.
speaker_heading: TIM
text: (stands up, facing
dialog: Smith)
dialog: Thing is, I do worry. Maybe I ain't
dialog: much else, but I'm sure a worrier.
dialog: (beat, then with soft
dialog: emphasis)
dialog: And I'm still the law.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Then do your job, Tim.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: What is my job, Mr. Smith? Maybe I'd
dialog: better find out before Macreedy does
dialog: it for me.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (evenly)
dialog: Macreedy'll do nothing, Tim. And
dialog: neither will you.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Suppose I decide to try?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: That would be dangerous. You got the
text: body of a hippo, Tim, but the brain
dialog: of a rabbit. Don't overtax it.
text: He stares harshly at the Sheriff. Tim tries unsuccessfully
text: to meet his gaze. Then, slowly, he sits down.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (lowering his eyes,
dialog: mumbling)
dialog: Yes, Mr. Smith.
text: Smith slowly walks behind Tim's chair and silently,
text: patronizingly pats the Sheriff's slack shoulder...
scene_heading: INT. TELEGRAPH AGENT'S OFFICE - FULL SHOT
text: Hastings is sitting at his desk. The telegraph ticker starts
text: to splutter. Hastings rushes to it. He listens, and starts
text: to scribble. Then he gulps nervously, a confused expression
text: on his face. As the telegraph key stops as suddenly as it
text: had begun, Hastings jumps up frantically and, holding the
text: sheet of paper, runs out of the shack.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: as he runs toward hotel.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL - LONG SHOT
text: with Doc, Sam, Coley, Hector and Pete on the porch. Hastings
text: runs up the steps, pausing momentarily. His jaws move, but
text: CAMERA is too far away to pick up his obvious question. Coley
text: gestures toward the jail; then Hastings turns and runs down
text: the steps followed by Doc et al.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - FULL SHOT
text: Hastings runs down the street toward the jail followed by
dialog: Doc et al.
scene_heading: EXT. JAIL
text: as Hastings runs up the steps with a hobnailed clatter. Smith
text: comes out to investigate, followed by Tim. Doc, et al are
text: congregated at the foot of the steps. Hastings slaps the
text: sheet of paper in front of Smith. Utter quiet. Everyone stares
text: at Smith, waiting for a reaction -- everyone except Tim, who
text: stares straight ahead, seeing nothing, and Doc, whose eyes
text: are locked sympathetically on Tim. Smith finishes reading
text: the wire. His face is expressionless. After a moment...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (to Smith)
dialog: From L.A.?
text: Smith doesn't answer but...
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: Yeah! From that private detective!
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (to Smith)
dialog: What does he say? Who is this guy?
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: Never heard of him, that's what he
dialog: says! He checked and there's no John
dialog: J. Macreedy. No listing -- no record --
dialog: no information. Nothing.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (quietly, after a
dialog: beat, to Smith)
dialog: Where does that leave us?
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: I'll tell you where...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Shut up!
text: He folds the message carefully, puts it in his pocket.
text: Abruptly Tim turns and disappears inside his office. Smith,
text: with some restraint, walks down the steps to the street.
scene_heading: MOVING SHOT - SMITH
text: as he takes Coley's arm, and Pete's. The trio moves away,
text: taking a position perhaps 15 feet from Doc. Hector, Sam and
text: Hastings move toward them.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - SMITH, COLEY AND PETE
text: In b.g. at a respectful distance are Hector, Sam and Hastings.
text: SHOOT parallel to tracks, which disappear far into the
dialog: horizon.
text: The following dialogue is delivered in an undertone...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (turning to Coley)
dialog: Now, Coley...?
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (takes a breath, then)
dialog: I think Macreedy's a nothing. A
dialog: nobody.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Is he?
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: So there's nothing to worry about.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Isn't there?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: You got brains, you have.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (squirming)
dialog: But what can he find out? That Komako
dialog: was...?
dialog: (Smith glares at him)
dialog: Suppose he finds out?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: A nobody like Macreedy can raise a
dialog: pretty big stink. The point is...
dialog: who would miss a nobody like Macreedy
dialog: if he just, say, disappeared? Who,
dialog: Coley?
text: Coley is terribly preoccupied, balances himself, like a child,
text: on a steel rail.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: Coley!
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (galvanized from the
dialog: rail)
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Why don't we wait...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Wait for what?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: I mean, maybe he won't find anything.
dialog: Maybe he'll just go away.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Not Macreedy. I know those maimed
dialog: guys. Their minds get twisted. They
dialog: put on hair shirts and act like
dialog: martyrs. They're all of 'em do-
dialog: gooders, trouble makers, freaks.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: But there's no danger yet. Let's
dialog: wait and see.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (interrupting,
dialog: appealing to Coley
dialog: as an equal)
dialog: No danger, he says. This guy's like
text: a carrier of small pox. Since he
text: arrives, there's been a fever in
dialog: this town, an infection. And it's
dialog: spreading.
text: (he glances from Coley
dialog: to Pete)
text: Hastings has been in a sick sweat,
text: running around, shooting off his
text: face. Doc, for the first time in
dialog: four years, gets snotty with me.
dialog: Liz...
dialog: (to Pete)
dialog: ...your own sister -- acts like a
dialog: fool.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (hotly)
dialog: She's just a kid.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (scoffing)
dialog: Kid! She must have strained every
dialog: muscle in her head to get so stupid!
dialog: Renting him a jeep! And Tim -- Tim,
text: the rum-dum. Tim suddenly decides
dialog: he's gotta act like a Sheriff.
dialog: (to Coley, gesturing
dialog: at Pete)
dialog: And he says what's the danger.
text: Brittle silence for a moment. Then...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (easily)
dialog: Of course, if you want to take the
dialog: chance...
text: Pete doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (grimly)
dialog: Not me.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: All right, then...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: It's not all right! You're so mighty
dialog: quick to kill -- he's not an animal!
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (to Coley, with mock
dialog: surprise)
dialog: Well, listen to little spitfire...
dialog: (turning slowly on
dialog: Pete)
dialog: You sniveling toad! I'm saving your
dialog: neck! If I don't, who will?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (squirming)
dialog: All I said...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Who will?! Doc? Tim? Your sister,
dialog: with the rocks in her head?
text: Pete is silent.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: One thing about your sister -- she's
dialog: got twice the guts you have. You're
text: only fit for running away.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: It's too late for that.
text: (belligerently, slowly,
dialog: at Pete)
dialog: He's in this, and he ain't running
dialog: no place.
text: There is a long, electric silence. Pete is defeated.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (finally)
dialog: All right, then...
text: He pauses for emphasis. Then, as he starts to talk again...
scene_heading: INT. JAIL
text: Tim stands facing the wall, shoulders hunched, suffering.
text: Doc comes in and watches him silently, Tim turns, facing
text: Doc, turns again to concentrate on a faded newspaper
text: photograph framed and hanging on the wall.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - TIM
text: SHOOTING over his shoulder. Focal point: the "photograph".
text: It shows a widly grinning, moderately alert and healthy Tim
text: of perhaps five years ago. He is wearing, proudly, his badge
text: of office, and behind him, mildly interested in the
text: proceedings, is Reno Smith, his erstwhile sponsor. The heading
text: on the photo reads: DEPUTY SHERIFF NAMED FOR BLACK ROCK.
scene_heading: MED. SHOT - TIM AND DOC
text: Tim takes the photo off the wall and, holding it, turns to
dialog: face Doc...
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Let Smith find himself a new boy. I
dialog: can't take it another day.
dialog: (pauses, looks at Doc)
dialog: If you're a sheriff, they gotta
dialog: respect you, otherwise you can't do
dialog: your job.
dialog: (shakes his head)
text: They just laugh.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I don't laugh, Tim.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Why don't you?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Cut it out, Tim.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: You should!
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: In the name of well-adjusted manhood,
dialog: snap out of it. You're going to get
dialog: a complex or something.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Four years ago if I'd of done my
dialog: job... if I'd of checked up and found
dialog: out what happened. But I didn't!
dialog: Just like Smith figured.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: What could you have found out? They
dialog: told you a story. You had to believe
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Do you believe it?
text: Doc squirms but doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Do you know what happened?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I don't know.
dialog: (ironically)
dialog: I lead a quiet, contemplative life.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Me, I didn't even try to find out.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Don't you understand?
text: (he taps the badge on
dialog: his chest)
dialog: When you wear that badge, you're the
dialog: Law. And when something happens,
dialog: against the Law, you're supposed to
dialog: do something about it. It's your
dialog: job.
dialog: (simply)
dialog: Me... I did nothin'. And that's what's
dialog: eatin' me. What kind of prescription
dialog: you got for that?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I don't know. I've never been able
dialog: to find one for myself.
text: Tim takes off his badge and throws it on the desk.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Only one thing -- don't quit, Tim.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Maybe this feller Macreedy has the
dialog: prescription.
text: They look at each other. Slowly Tim picks up his badge and
text: pins it back on.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. DESERT ROAD
text: An old marker, jutting on an angle at the side of the road,
text: reads: ADOBE FLAT. Beneath it an arrow points ahead. Macreedy
text: steers the jeep up the narrow, rutted trail between a serious
text: of enormous boulders.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: as he drives to the far end of the boulders, reaching a flat
text: piece of land completely surrounded by rocks. Beyond the
text: rocks is what remains of a burned-out ranch house, and an
dialog: abandoned well.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: MED. SHOT - MACREEDY
text: in the wreckage. The remains of an iron bed. The burned-out
text: shell of a pick-up truck. Part of a stove. A morass of
text: bottles, all sizes and shapes, some of them broken. Macreedy
text: halts momentarily beside the well. Reaching out he touches
text: the warped sun-beaten boards that cover the mouth. He removes
text: one, and, picking up a pebble, drops it through the opening.
text: There is a long beat and then, from far, far below we HEAR a
text: faint PLUNK (o.s.). He replaces the board and walks to a
text: broken wall. He touches the burned out frame of a picture.
text: The frame falls to the ground, leaving an un-scorched square
text: on the surface of the wall. He goes past a solitary standing
text: stone chimney. Suddenly he halts, arrested by something among
text: the rubble, the rottenness and the ashes.
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE - WHAT HE SEES
text: Surrounded by the seared and blackened earth is a rectangular
text: patch of lovely wild flowers.
text: BACK TO MACREEDY
text: studying the brightly colored flowers. His face is lined in
text: thought. He stoops, gathers a few buds in his hand. He
text: examines them, his brow furrowed. As he slowly twirls a flower
text: between thumb and forefinger, CAMERA PANS from Macreedy in a
text: long slow arc, taking in miles and miles of barren wasteland.
text: CAMERA RISES, TILTING UPWARD to a cliff far away and shielded
text: from Macreedy's view by the intervening rocks and ridges.
scene_heading: EXTREME LONG SHOT - CLIFF
text: and on it the outline of an automobile.
scene_heading: MED. SHOT - THE CAR
text: empty. It is parked on a narrow dirt road. On one side of
text: the road the cliff falls abruptly to the valley far below;
text: on the other, the steep, shaly outcropping continues to rise.
text: For a moment CAMERA HOLDS on the car. Then it PANS SLOWLY
text: upward about fifty feet, HOLDING this time on...
speaker_heading: PINNACLE OF CLIFF
text: where a man is looking off toward Adobe Flat through a pair
text: of high-powered glasses. The man is Coley Trimble.
scene_heading: ADOBE WELLS - MACREEDY
text: Grimly he walks toward the jeep, still holding the wild
text: flowers. Now he pockets them, jumps into the vehicle and
text: drives off.
scene_heading: THE CLIFF - COLEY
text: continues to train his glasses on Macreedy far below in the
text: moving jeep.
scene_heading: THE JEEP - MACREEDY
text: driving steadily over rough, rocky terrain.
speaker_heading: COLEY
text: climbs down from the pinnacle of the cliff and enters a big,
text: powerful '36 Packard sedan.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
text: shifts to low gear as the jeep presses into hilly country.
scene_heading: COLEY - IN HIS CAR
text: turns on the ignition.
scene_heading: MACREEDY - IN THE JEEP
text: as it winds along a road with the cliff rising on one side
text: and falling off steeply on the other. He rounds a curve,
text: passes an insignificant side road, drives on.
speaker_heading: THE SIDE ROAD
text: The car with Coley at the wheel pulls out, follows Macreedy.
text: INTERCUT between the two cars, with the distance between
text: them constantly diminishing.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. - FLAT ROAD
text: a straightaway, cutting through rocky outcroppings on both
text: sides. Macreedy's jeep roars by, pursued by the gaining
dialog: Packard.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - MACREEDY IN JEEP - (PROCESS)
text: For the first time he is aware that he is being followed,
text: and that the man at the wheel of the big Packard is Coley.
speaker_heading: SHOT - PACKARD
text: picking up tremendous speed.
scene_heading: EXT. - ROAD BED
text: proceeding over a series of turns, inclines, declivities
text: (according to location terrain). Engines roar, brakes whinny,
text: tires scream, skidding on the turns.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - ROAD BED
text: as Coley overtakes Macreedy. He steers the big car within a
text: foot or two of the jeep. The terrain has steepened; on the
text: right there is nothing between the road and the valley floor
text: far below but a few inches of soft shoulder.
text: As Macreedy pulls wide on a razor turn, Coley tries to come
text: inside him. Macreedy, fighting for control of the veering
text: jeep, succeeds in cutting him off.
scene_heading: CURVE IN ROAD
text: In the approach, Coley cuts sharp into the jeep. The jeep
text: seems to roll with the blow, then leaps ahead, maneuvering
dialog: the turn.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT COLEY IN CAR (PROCESS)
text: Coley is flustered, his face blood-shot with fury. He seems
dialog: to generate an atmosphere of vicious, cruel craziness; the
text: wild smile across his mouth is almost sensual, obscene. He
text: floorboards the Packard. Like some monstrous battering ram,
text: the heavy car smashes into the jeep's rear bumper, kicking
text: the smaller vehicle jerkily ahead. Coley floorboards the gas
text: pedal, again. Each time he slams into the jeep with sickening
text: force, with the brutal abrasion of metal pounding metal.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - MACREEDY - (PROCESS)
text: With one arm he works frantically to keep his under-sized
text: car on the twisty road. He sees ahead a precipitous cliff
text: falling off on an impossibly sharp curve. He makes a
dialog: decision...
text: Just ahead the gradient is comparatively gradual, however
text: steep by normal standards. He swings the jeep off the road,
text: onto the declivity. The car plunges downward, miraculously
text: upright. Macreedy jockeys it to a whirring, shuddering halt
text: in the soft sand at the bottom of a draw.
text: Macreedy turns slightly and looks up the mountain-side with
dialog: the road at its summit...
scene_heading: WHAT HE SEES: EXTREME LONG SHOT - COLEY
text: standing at the edge of the road, peering down at him. In
text: b.g., the Packard. Coley turns emphatically, gets into car,
text: drives off.
text: BACK TO MACREEDY
text: His face is caked with the sweat of his exertions and dust
text: kicked up by the grinding wheels. He exhales heavily and
text: runs a shaky hand across the side of his head. He becomes
text: aware suddenly of a NOISE, a trickling, an unmistakable tinkle
text: as of running water. He frowns, opens the jeep door...
scene_heading: MEDIUM SHOT - JEEP
text: as Macreedy unlatches the hood and throws it open. The NOISE
text: continues. Macreedy examines the engine and finds the
dialog: difficulty...
scene_heading: INSERT - ENGINE
text: focal point: the nut joining the gas line with the carburetor
text: has worked loose in the jouncing the car has taken. With his
text: hand Macreedy screws it tight.
scene_heading: MEDIUM SHOT - JEEP
text: as Macreedy lowers the hood, re-enters jeep. He turns on
text: ignition. The engine fires. As he drives slowly out of the
dialog: ravine...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: EXT. BLACK ROCK - MAIN STREET CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR
text: his long face even more horsey than usual, with half an apple
text: in his mouth. He stands in front of the grocery store, with
text: the baskets of fruit on the sidewalk. He looks up, stops
text: crunching.
speaker_heading: CLOSE SHOT - SAM
text: at the window of the Bar &amp; Grill, cleaning an ear with a
text: toothpick. He looks out. The toothpick is motionless.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - HASTINGS
text: fidgeting outside his shack. He looks up. His Adam's apple
text: turns completely over.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: REVERSE SHOT - WHAT THEY SEE
text: Macreedy slowly driving the jeep toward Liz's garage. He
text: looks neither to the right nor left.
scene_heading: GROUP SHOT - FAVORING SMITH AND COLEY
text: Standing on the porch of the hotel, watching. Smith's face
text: compresses, and his eyes swivel to rest on Coley's with cold,
text: contemptuous anger. Coley licks his lips uneasily. Smith
text: turns and enters the hotel. Coley meekly follows.
scene_heading: FULL SHOT - MACREEDY
text: He brakes the jeep before the garage. No one is there. He
text: parks the vehicle, gets out and heads down the street.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL
text: Macreedy is about to go up the steps when he sees Coley's
text: car at the curb. Both right fenders are creased. An ugly,
text: jagged break has split the front bumper almost in half, one
text: part angling crazily toward the sky, the other drooping in
text: the dust of the road. Smith and Coley come out of the hotel.
text: They stand on the porch, watching Macreedy as he in turn
text: watches the car. They exchange a glance. Smith nods, so...
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: Well, if it's not Macreedy - the
dialog: world's champion road hog.
text: He walks down the steps to the street, joining Macreedy.
text: Smith remains on the porch.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Yeah. It's a small world.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: But such an unfriendly one. Now why
dialog: did you want to crowd me off the
dialog: road?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (with a slow grin)
dialog: I'm kind of sorry if I've incurred
dialog: your displeasure.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: Look what you did to my car.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: If there's anything I can do to make
dialog: up for it...
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: You ought to be careful, man -- all
dialog: that one-arm driving.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'd be glad to pay the damages.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: It's a threat to life and limb.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Fortunately no one was hurt.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: You could get yourself killed that
dialog: way -- nosin' all over the
dialog: countryside.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: That's the real danger, I can see
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: Why that's pretty smart of you. How
dialog: long you intend to keep it up?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'm getting out of here, right now.
text: He walks up the steps, past Smith, and into the hotel. Coley
text: glances up at Smith, grinning with self-satisfaction, like a
text: small boy who has carried out perfectly the instructions of
dialog: his teacher.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL
text: The lobby empty except for Pete behind the desk. Macreedy
text: goes to him. Pete seems elaborately occupied arranging and
text: re-arranging a few file cards. Smith enters the lobby. He
text: stands in b.g. watching Macreedy and the desk clerk.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (to Pete)
dialog: Still expecting that convention?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (looking up)
dialog: What...?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: If you're expecting any extra cowboys,
dialog: my room is available.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: You're checking out?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Is there a train through here tonight?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Nothing till tomorrow morning. The
text: streamliner.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I know that. How about freights?
dialog: (Pete shakes his head)
dialog: Milk train?
speaker_heading: PETE
text: Tomorrow. After the streamliner.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Busses?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Closest stop is Sand City -- thirty-
text: two miles away.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: You're in such a hurry, you should
dialog: have never got off here.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'm inclined to agree with you.
text: He turns, walks toward porch. Pete looks at Smith. Smith's
text: eyes follow Macreedy.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. LIZ'S GARAGE - FULL SHOT
text: In the gloom of the lube pit, Liz's mechanic, a dirty old
text: man, is draining the oil out of the crankcase of the car on
text: the rack. The girl stands beside the pit, silently watching
text: the old man. Now she pauses, looks o.s. toward the open garage
dialog: doors...
scene_heading: WHAT SHE SEES - MACREEDY
text: entering the scene, stopping to look at Liz's jeep parked in
text: front of the wide doors. He turns his eyes vaguely in the
text: direction of Liz, but he doesn't see her in the shadows behind
text: the car on the rack, He advances a step, pausing...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Anybody home?
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: EXT. LUBE PIT - LIZ
text: She does not answer. Instead, she silently twists the
text: crankcase petcock, stopping the flow of oil. She watches
text: Macreedy closely.
scene_heading: INT. GARAGE
text: Macreedy again shifts his eyes to the jeep, then, with
text: decision, he goes to a work bench, opening the drawers and
text: rummaging among the contents.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (o.s.)
dialog: If you're looking for the jeep key...
text: Macreedy turns as Liz comes toward him. She gestures toward
text: the open drawers.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: ...it's not there...
text: Macreedy waits for her to go on. She doesn't. She stands
text: there, staring at him.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: In that case, where do you suggest I
dialog: look?
text: She turns, walks back toward the lube pit.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (over her shoulders)
dialog: The jeep's not for rent.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: It was, just a few hours ago.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (flatly)
dialog: Things change.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (with grim amusement)
dialog: Sure. And Smith is the kid who changes
dialog: 'em.
text: She doesn't answer. Macreedy goes to her.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Miss Brooks.
dialog: (softly)
dialog: What's the matter with this town of
dialog: yours?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Nothing. It's none of your concern.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Then why are they all so concerned
dialog: about me?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Am I concerned?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: No, you're not. But...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: But what?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (easily)
dialog: But it strikes me you're a little
dialog: too unconcerned. So unconcerned you
dialog: won't even rent me a jeep.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (flaring)
dialog: I don't run a taxi service. I don't
dialog: have a license.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I wish others in this town were as
dialog: scrupulously devoted to law and order
dialog: as you are.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (hotly)
dialog: Why don't you lay off! If you don't
dialog: like it here, go back where you came
dialog: from!
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Funny thing. They try to kill me,
dialog: and you feel persecuted.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I don't want to get involved.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Involved in what?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (retreating)
dialog: Whatever you're up to. Whatever
dialog: happens, I've got to go on living
dialog: here. These people are my neighbors,
dialog: my friends.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: All of them?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: This is my town, Mr. Macreedy, like
dialog: it or not. Whatever happened here,
dialog: it was long ago, now it's... it's...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (evenly)
dialog: Dead and buried?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Whatever did happen, you don't seem
dialog: to like it. Why do you stick around?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: Because of my brother. Pete. He'd
dialog: never leave.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Didn't you ever think of going without
dialog: him. You're sort of independent and
dialog: he's... he's...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Weak. I know. That's why I couldn't
dialog: leave him.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (softly)
dialog: What did your brother do?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: He... I...
dialog: (flaring again)
dialog: What do you care? What do you care
dialog: about Black Rock?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Nothing much. Only, there're not
dialog: many places like this in America --
dialog: but even one is too many. Because I
dialog: think something sort of bad happened
dialog: here.
dialog: (frowning)
dialog: Something I can't find the handle
dialog: to...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: You just think so. You don't know.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: This much I know -- the rule of law
dialog: has been suspended in this town. The
text: gorillas have taken over.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: You're a fine one to talk! You come
dialog: in here, sneaking around, trying to
dialog: steal the key to my jeep.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I kind of had a notion that was the
dialog: only way I could get it.
text: She opens her mouth to answer, but she doesn't know what to
dialog: say.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (simply)
dialog: Was I wrong, Miss Brooks?
text: He waits as she tries to answer, and again she can't. For a
text: moment he watches her struggle in anguished silence with
text: herself. Then he turns and goes out.
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET - MACREEDY
text: walks thoughtfully down street. He comes abreast of hotel.
scene_heading: EXT. PORCH OF HOTEL
text: where Smith is still sitting. For a moment he watches Macreedy
dialog: speculatively, then...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Mr. Macreedy.
dialog: (reasonably, as
text: Macreedy turns toward
dialog: him)
dialog: I'd like to ask you a few questions...
dialog: as long as you're around...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (walking up steps)
dialog: I'm around all right.
text: He stands facing Smith on the porch, then...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (with just a touch of
dialog: wryness)
dialog: You probably know that Miss Brooks
dialog: is no longer in the car rental
dialog: business?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (solemnly)
dialog: Good. I wouldn't want to see that
dialog: girl get into trouble...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: You wouldn't?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: ...what with rental permits, gas
dialog: rationing... you know what I mean.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Sure. I admire your sturdy sense of
dialog: responsibility.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (dismissively)
dialog: It's just, a girl like that has a
dialog: future.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Let's talk about my future.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (almost slyly)
dialog: Do you have the time?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I don't seem to be going any place.
text: He takes the other chair.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (after a pause)
dialog: I hear you handle a jeep real well.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I have a way with jeeps. A certain
dialog: familiarity.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: I think I understand. You're an Army
dialog: man.
dialog: (looking at Macreedy's
dialog: stiff arm)
dialog: Where'd you get it?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Italy.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (sincerely)
dialog: Tough. I tried to get in myself, the
dialog: day after those rats bombed Pearl
dialog: Harbor.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What stopped you?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: The physical. They wouldn't take me.
dialog: The morning after Pearl, I was the
dialog: first man in line at Marine recruiting
dialog: in Sand City. And they wouldn't take
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (flatly)
dialog: Tough.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: What do you do in Los Angeles, Mr.
dialog: Macreedy?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'm retired.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: You're a pretty young man...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: You might say I was forced into
dialog: retirement.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: What were you looking for in Adobe
dialog: Flat?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Komako, like I told you. Like you
dialog: told me, he wasn't there.
text: Smith laughs quietly.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What's so funny?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Nothing. It's just -- I don't believe
dialog: you. I believe a man is as big as
dialog: what he seeks. I believe you're a
dialog: big man, Mr. Macreedy.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Flattery will get you nowhere.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Why would a man like you be looking
dialog: for a lousy Jap farmer?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Maybe I'm not so big.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Yes, you are.
dialog: (a beat; looking hard
dialog: at Macreedy)
dialog: I believe that a man is as big as
dialog: the things that make him mad. Nobody
dialog: around here has been big enough to
dialog: make you mad.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What makes you mad, Mr. Smith?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Me...? Nothing in particular.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (bemused)
dialog: I see. You're a big man, too. Only...
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: ...the Japanese make you mad...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: That's different. After the sneak
dialog: attack on Pearl Harbor... after
dialog: Bataan...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: ...and Komako made you mad.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: It's the same thing.
dialog: (scoffing)
dialog: Loyal Japanese-Americans -- that's a
dialog: laugh. They're mad dogs. Look at
dialog: Corregidor, the death march.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What did Komako have to do with
dialog: Corregidor?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Wasn't he a Jap? Look, Macreedy,
dialog: there's a law in this county against
dialog: shooting dogs. But if I see a mad
dialog: dog loose, I don't wait for him to
dialog: bite me.
text: (exhales sharply,
text: shaking his head
dialog: with irritation)
dialog: I swear, you're beginning to make me
dialog: mad.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: All strangers do.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Not all. Some of 'em. When they come
dialog: here snooping.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Snooping for what?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: I mean, outsiders coming around,
dialog: looking for something.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (pressing)
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: I don't know. People are always
dialog: looking for something in this part
dialog: of the West. To the historian, it's
dialog: the "Old West." To the book writers,
dialog: it's the "Wild West." To the
dialog: businessmen, it's the "Undeveloped
dialog: West." They all say we're backward
dialog: and poor, and I guess we are.
dialog: (snorts)
dialog: We don't even have enough water.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: But this place, to us, is our West.
dialog: (heatedly)
dialog: I just wish they'd leave us alone.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Leave you alone to do what?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (coldly)
dialog: I don't know what you mean.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What happened to Komako?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: He went away, I told you. Shortly
dialog: after he left, a bunch of kids got
text: fooling around out his place. They
dialog: burned it down. It was one of those
dialog: things -- you know how kids are.
text: Macreedy laughs quietly.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: What's funny?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Nothing. Only -- I don't believe
dialog: you. Any more than I believed you
dialog: about the letters.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: You don't seem to believe anything I
dialog: say.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (vaguely)
dialog: Yes, I do -- about businessmen, for
dialog: instance. I think a businessman would
dialog: be interested in Adobe Flat.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: All that land lying fallow. Could be
text: put to some use. Like a graveyard.
text: (Smith opens his mouth
dialog: to speak but Macreedy
dialog: goes on)
dialog: A historian might be interested,
dialog: too. Because of the strange customs
dialog: around here, such as burying cattle...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Burying cattle...?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (calmly)
text: Something's buried out there.
text: He takes the wild flowers from his pocket, holding them in
text: front of Smith.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: See these wild flowers? That means a
dialog: grave. I've seen it overseas. I figure
dialog: it isn't a man's grave or someone
dialog: would have marked it. Sort of a
dialog: mystery, isn't it?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Sort of. Maybe you can figure it
dialog: out.
text: Macreedy gets up, half turns to Smith.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Maybe.
text: He starts down the steps.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Why not give it a whirl?
dialog: (Macreedy turns)
dialog: It'll help you pass the time...
dialog: (continued;
dialog: meaningfully)
dialog: ...for a while.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Not interested. I got other things
dialog: to do.
text: He turns and walks down the street.
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET - MACREEDY
text: headed towards Doc's establishment. The building, which serves
text: Doc as home, office and laboratory, has centered on a pane
dialog: of glass:
scene_heading: T.R. VELIE, JR. UNDERTAKER AND VETERINARY
text: And in the lower right hand corner:
scene_heading: ASSAYER NOTARY PUBLIC
text: A few of the peeled gold and black letters are completely
dialog: missing.
text: The building is separated from the structure next to it by
text: an alleyway. Filling the narrow passage is Hector David, his
text: long massive body wedged against the wall like an unkempt
text: monument. His little pig eyes meet Macreedy's. Hector spits
text: in the dust with bland insolence.
scene_heading: EXT. DOC'S OFFICE - MACREEDY
text: walks up the steps and enters.
scene_heading: INT. DOC'S OFFICE
text: Dark and shadowy. At the far end of a hallway an insipid
text: light bulb burns. Macreedy goes toward it, entering...
scene_heading: INT. DOC'S LAB
dialog: devoted to the care and preservation of the Dear Departed.
text: In the center of the room is a long rectangular slab stained
dialog: with the juices of those unfortunates who have had occasion
text: to rest thereon. The walls are lined with rickety bookcases
text: jammed, not with volumes, but with the jugs and jars, the
text: chemicals and unguents of Doc's multiple callings. In a corner
text: three or four neat pine boxes are stacked one on the other.
text: Doc sits at a cluttered desk feeding a large bowl of goldfish
text: and sipping a glass of milk. He looks up as Macreedy enters.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Hi. Pull up a chair.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Can I use your phone?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Help yourself.
dialog: (chuckles)
dialog: You know, you're one of the few people
dialog: who's ever been back here I can say
dialog: that to.
text: Macreedy reaches for the phone book.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It's 4-2-4.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (pausing)
dialog: What's 4-2-4?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: If I've got you pegged -- and I think
dialog: I have -- you're calling the State
dialog: Police. But if I was you -- and I'm
dialog: purely glad I'm not -- I'd look it
dialog: up myself.
dialog: (emphatically)
dialog: I wouldn't trust anybody around here,
dialog: including me.
text: Macreedy thinks it over and comes to a swift decision. He
text: checks the phone book. Then, picking up phone...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (to Doc)
dialog: Thanks.
dialog: (into receiver)
dialog: 4-2-4.
scene_heading: INT. TELEPHONE OPERATOR'S OFFICE
text: a cubbyhole behind the hotel clerk's desk in the lobby. At
text: the switchboard is Pete, and above him tacked on the wall is
dialog: the sign:
speaker_heading: SMILE
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: 4-2-4...?
dialog: (he looks up)
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK revealing Smith standing beside him. The
text: two men exchange a nod.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Lines 're busy.
text: (he clicks off the
dialog: instrument)
scene_heading: INT. DOC'S LAB
text: Macreedy slowly puts down the phone. Doc sips his milk, all
text: the while staring queasily over the glass at Macreedy. He
text: puts it down, his gaze still fixed on the stranger...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (sing-song)
dialog: I know -- don't tell me -- lines all
dialog: busy. They'll be busy all day.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (after a beat,
dialog: grimacing)
dialog: Don't look at me like that.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Like what?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Like I'm a potential customer.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Everybody is -- and I get 'em coming
dialog: and going.
text: He goes to a topographic map hanging on the wall -- a large,
text: impressive map -- faded, fly-blown and divided into sections.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (gesturing toward it)
dialog: First I sell 'em a piece of land.
dialog: Think they farm it? Nope. They dig
dialog: for gold.
text: He moves to photograph beside the map on the wall -- a large,
text: impressive photograph of a placer mine in operation.
speaker_heading: DOC
text: They rip off the top soil of ten
text: winding hills. They sprint in here,
text: fog-heaved with excitement, lugging
text: nuggets, big and bright and shiny.
text: He moves to his desk, picks up a glistening blob of stone,
text: resting next to an assayer's scales, and examines it...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (rhetorically)
dialog: Is it gold?
text: He bangs the rock down next to the scales.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: It is not! Do they quit? They do
dialog: not!
text: He moves to a third illustration -- a colored reproduction,
text: large and impressive -- of acres upon green acres of produce
text: in bloom; the kind of picture Southern Pacific places above
dialog: its calendars.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (with theatrical
dialog: gesture toward
dialog: reproduction)
dialog: Then they decide to farm. Farm! In
dialog: country so dry you have to prime a
text: man before he can spit, and before
dialog: you can say "Fat Sam" they're stalled,
text: stranded and starving. They get weevil-
text: brained and buttsprung...
text: He moves to the coffins piled in a corner and runs his hand
text: down the smooth pine sides with loving tenderness.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (simply)
dialog: So I bury 'em.
text: (a beat, as he rejoins
text: Macreedy in the center
dialog: of the room)
dialog: But why should I bore you with my
dialog: triumphs?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Yeah. I've got a problem of my own.
text: Doc nods; he points vaguely toward the street...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (like an old testament
dialog: prophet)
dialog: They're going to kill you with no
dialog: hard feelings.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (nastily)
dialog: And you'll just sit on your hands
dialog: and let them.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Don't get waspish with me, young
dialog: feller.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I feel for you, but I'm consumed
dialog: with apathy. Why should I mix in?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: To save a life.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I got enough trouble saving my own.
text: (he refills his glass
dialog: from a milk bottle
dialog: on the desk)
dialog: I try to live right and drink my
dialog: orange juice every day. But mostly I
dialog: try to mind my own business. Which
dialog: is something I'd advise you to do.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: It's a little late for that...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You can still get out of town. And
dialog: you'd better get out like a whisper.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: How can I?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (taking a key ring
dialog: from his pocket)
dialog: I got sort of a limousine at your
dialog: disposal.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Where is it?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (tossing him the key)
dialog: Out back.
text: Macreedy snares the key and walks out. Doc gets up to follow
dialog: him.
scene_heading: EXT. REAR OF DOC'S OFFICE
text: An old-fashioned hearse, with plate glass sides and elaborate
text: lead candelabra -- Doc's "limousine" -- is parked a few steps
text: from the door. Macreedy climbs in behind the wheel as Doc
text: comes out and stands on the small back porch.
text: Macreedy turns on the ignition switch. His foot kicks over
text: the starter, but the spark doesn't catch. He tries again,
text: then again. He pauses, frowns, as Doc comes down from the
text: porch and joins him.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (concentrating on the
dialog: dashboard)
dialog: Won't start.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (nervously, to Macreedy)
dialog: Something wrong?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Just won't start...
text: Again he presses the ignition switch. Nothing. And suddenly,
text: in b.g., the great bulk of Hector David looms up, leaning
text: against the porch pillar at the corner of the alleyway. His
text: expression is almost dreamy. For a moment he stands there
text: while Macreedy toys with the ignition and the sick engine
text: wheezes and grinds. Then he ambles up to the hearse...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (gratuitously)
dialog: Could be the wirin'. Why don't you
dialog: look under the hood?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: For that I thank you.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: How much time you think I've got
dialog: before...?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: They'll wait at least till dark.
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: They'd be afraid to see each other's
dialog: faces.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (slapping Doc's
dialog: shoulder lightly)
dialog: Well, so long, Doc. I can't say it's
dialog: been charming but...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Where are you going?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I don't know. But I'm going on foot.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: That's no good. You stray ten yards
dialog: off Main Street, and you'll be stone,
dialog: cold dead.
dialog: (offers Macreedy a
dialog: cigarette)
dialog: That's the situation, in a nut.
text: Macreedy takes the cigarette, lighting a match with one hand.
text: He puts the fire to Doc's smoke and then lights his own. He
text: inhales, exhales, thinking. Finally...
text: Macreedy gets out of the car. Hector has already opened the
text: hood. Doc peers nervously over his shoulder. As they study
text: the engine, Hector's horsey face appears behind them. He
text: gestures toward the engine.
scene_heading: INSERT - THE ENGINE
text: Focal point: a hopeless snarl of ignition wires.
text: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's the wirin', like I said. Now
dialog: wasn't that a good guess?
text: Slowly he takes off his wrist watch and puts it in his pants
dialog: pocket.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: It can be fixed.
text: Ignoring Hector, he bends over the engine, controlling his
text: obvious awareness that Hector has fouled up the ignition.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Easy. Unless, of course, this here
dialog: wire...
dialog: (reaching inside the
dialog: hood, pointing)
dialog: ...got broke or something.
speaker_heading: DOC
text: (suddenly, heatedly,
dialog: turning on Hector)
dialog: Do the nice little things, like keep
dialog: your big fat nose out of my business.
text: Hector's eyes go hard. He reaches out suddenly, one great
text: hand closing over the distributor cap. He yanks, ripping the
text: feed wires out of their sockets.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: (triumphantly, holding
dialog: up the wires)
dialog: Yep. It's the wirin'.
text: Still gripping the wires, he walks off. Doc simmers down. He
text: turns to face Macreedy, who hasn't moved. Now Macreedy slowly
text: lowers the hood of the car.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (softly, after a beat)
dialog: I'm sorry, son. You got to admit, I
dialog: tried.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (as if to himself)
dialog: Maybe...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Maybe what?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: If I can't get out of town, maybe I
dialog: can get the state cops in.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (irritably)
dialog: You tried the phone, didn't you? You
dialog: know what happened, don't you?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: There's another way. I'll be seeing
dialog: you, Doc.
text: He walks off. Doc looks after him grimly.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (calling)
dialog: I hope you'll be seeing me.
speaker_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: INT. TELEGRAPH AGENT'S OFFICE
text: Macreedy stands at the high counter, writing on a Postal
text: Telegraph blank. Behind the counter, watching him nervously,
text: is Hastings. At the agent's elbow is a big pitcher with dew
text: on the glass. It holds a pale liquid and a chunk of ice. His
text: eyes on Macreedy, Hastings refills a glass tumbler. He takes
text: a gulp as Macreedy puts down the pencil and pushes the message
text: toward him. Now Hastings puts down his glass, picks up the
text: form and scans it hurriedly. He looks at Macreedy, eyes glazed
dialog: with anxiety...
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: You notifyin' the state po-lice?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (putting a bill on
dialog: the counter)
dialog: That's what it says.
text: Hastings again refills his glass, slopping the liquid over
text: on the counter. He picks up the glass, hesitates, offers it
text: awkwardly to Macreedy.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (plaintively)
dialog: Lemonade?
text: Macreedy shakes his head. No.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (mopping his forehead)
dialog: It's hot as Billy-be-durned.
text: He drinks, puts down the glass. Macreedy pushes the bill
text: across the counter toward him. Hastings picks it up gingerly
text: then pauses...
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: Don't you like lemonade?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I never thought much about it.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: It don't have the muzzle velocity of
dialog: some other drinks drunk around here,
dialog: but it's good for what ails you.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: What ails you, Mr. Hastings?
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: Me...?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Why are you so upset about...
dialog: (points)
dialog: ...this wire?
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: Me...?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Are you afraid, Mr. Hastings?
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: Me...?
dialog: (a beat, then softly)
dialog: I guess I am.
dialog: (awkwardly he puts
dialog: Macreedy's bill back
dialog: on the counter)
dialog: But what's the use talkin'...?
dialog: (with grudging respect)
dialog: You don't know what it's like, being
dialog: scared.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (not unsympathetically)
dialog: You want me to describe the symptoms?
dialog: Right this minute I'm scared half to
dialog: death.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (simply)
dialog: You should be.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Yeah. But not of the state police.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (stonily)
dialog: Neither am I.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Then what are you afraid of? The
dialog: grave at Adobe Flat? A grave nobody
dialog: marked, nobody knows anything about.
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: That ain't it, either.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Is it Smith?
dialog: (no answer)
dialog: Is it?!
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (squirming)
dialog: Look, Mr. Macreedy. I'm just a good
dialog: neighbor...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: To Smith you are. How about to Komako?
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
dialog: (meeting Macreedy's
dialog: eyes)
dialog: I never seen Komako in my life.
dialog: Honest.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (again pushes the
dialog: bill toward Hastings)
dialog: Then send that wire, and bring me
dialog: the answer. You'll do that, won't
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: HASTINGS
text: (pauses, then worriedly
dialog: picking up the bill)
dialog: Yes, sir.
text: Macreedy turns and walks out. Hastings stands sweating,
text: staring hard at the message in his hand as...
speaker_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE:
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: INT. SAM'S BAR &amp; GRILL
text: A few loafers are at the bar, draped bonelessly on high
text: stools. There is the usual array of bottles and glasses
text: aligned before a cracked, discolored mirror. In the corner
text: is a jukebox. Along the opposite wall is a line of low stools
text: facing a counter covered with oil-cloth thumb-tacked in place.
text: Behind it is a greasy hot plate and a couple of soiled
text: displays -- breakfast food, soft drinks, etc. At the grill
text: counter is Sam, cleaning his finger-nails with a toothpick.
text: At the bar, engaged in a worrisome conversation, are four
text: loafers, FRANKLIN KROOL, WALT MURTRY, RON BENTHAM and STERLING
speaker_heading: LENARD.
speaker_heading: KROOL
dialog: I tell you, I won't have anything to
dialog: do with it.
speaker_heading: MURTRY
dialog: (nodding emphatically)
dialog: Live and let live, that's what I
dialog: say.
speaker_heading: BENTHAM
dialog: (frowning)
dialog: I don't know. I just don't know.
speaker_heading: LENARD
dialog: (to Bentham)
dialog: You gonna brood about it? Or you
dialog: want another beer?
speaker_heading: BENTHAM
dialog: A beer, I guess. Only...
text: He looks up, and something makes him hesitate...
scene_heading: WHAT HE SEES -- EXT. BAR &amp; GRILL - MACREEDY
text: stopping in front of the restaurant. On the window large,
text: rough capital letters in water paint proclaim:
scene_heading: SAM'S SANITARY BAR &amp; GRILL
text: Macreedy pauses, shrugs and then enters.
scene_heading: INT. BAR &amp; GRILL
text: Sam is still working on his finger nails. He evidences little
text: interest in the stranger, but at the bar in b.g. the loafers
text: stiffen. Macreedy takes a stool in front of Sam.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: What'll you have?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What have you got?
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Chili wit' beans.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Anything else?
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Chili wit'out beans.
text: Macreedy winces.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: You don't like the taste, that's
dialog: what they make ketchup for.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: In that case, I'll have it. And a
text: cup of coffee.
text: The door of the Bar &amp; Grill opens. Smith and Coley enter.
text: They walk to Macreedy, stopping just a few feet behind him.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (to Macreedy, with
dialog: menacing friendliness)
dialog: You still around? I thought you didn't
dialog: like this place.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (pleasantly)
dialog: Going to, or coming from?
speaker_heading: COLEY
text: Staying put.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: No comment.
text: He turns again as Sam plops an unseasonable mess of chili in
text: front of him.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (to Smith, gesturing
dialog: a thumb toward
dialog: Macreedy)
dialog: No comment, he says. No comment, and
dialog: all the time he's got my chair.
text: Macreedy smiles tiredly. He half turns toward Coley.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I always seem to be taking somebody's
dialog: place around here.
text: He gets up, with his chili, and sits down three stools away.
text: Coley straddles the stool Macreedy has vacated. He squirms
text: on it, his movements exaggerated. Now he spins to face Smith.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: This seat ain't comfortable.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I was afraid of that.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: I think I'd like the seat you're on.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (to Macreedy, mildly)
text: He's as changeable as a prairie fire.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (to Coley)
dialog: Suppose you tell me where to sit.
text: Coley opens his mouth but, realizing he has been
text: outmaneuvered, closes it again. The loafers in b.g. are
text: silent, watching. Sam, seemingly oblivious to Coley's pressure
text: on Macreedy, places a bottle of ketchup in front of the
text: stranger. Coley gets up slowly and walks stiff-legged to
text: Macreedy. He takes the bottle of ketchup and, without removing
text: the cap, upends it over Macreedy's plate. The cap is drowned
text: in a deluge of ketchup which overflows the plate and runs
text: onto the counter.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: (to Macreedy)
dialog: I hope that ain't too much.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (to Smith, gesturing
dialog: toward Coley)
dialog: Your friend's a very [...] fellow.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Sort of unpredictable, too. Got a
text: temper like a rattlesnake.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: That's me all over. I'm half hoss,
dialog: half alligator. Mess with me, I'll
dialog: kick a lung outta you. What do you
dialog: think of that?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: No comment.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: Talking to you is like pulling teeth.
dialog: You wear me out.
dialog: (loudly, after a beat)
dialog: You're a yellow-bellied Jap lover.
dialog: Am I right or wrong?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: You're not only wrong -- you're wrong
dialog: at the top of your voice.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: You don't like my voice?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (again turning to
dialog: Smith)
dialog: I think your friend's trying to start
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Now why-ever would he want to do
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I don't know. Maybe he figures, needle
dialog: me enough and I'll crack. Maybe I'll
dialog: even fight back. Then he or Hector --
dialog: your other ape -- would beat me to
text: death and cop a plea of self-defense.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: I don't think that'll be necessary.
dialog: You're so scared now you'll probably
dialog: drown in your own sweat.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: Before that happens, couldn't I pick
dialog: a fight with you if I tied one hand
dialog: behind me...?
text: Macreedy rises to go out. As he passes Coley, Coley takes
text: his limp left arm and spins him slowly but firmly around.
text: The two men face each other.
speaker_heading: COLEY
dialog: If I tied both hands...?
text: Macreedy shakes free of Coley's grasp. Coley lunges. His big
text: right fist streaks toward Macreedy's face. Macreedy ducks,
text: weaving with the punch. He grabs Coley's belt, twisting
text: Coley's body. The momentum of the swing throws Coley off
text: balance. As he goes past Macreedy, the stranger tugs at his
text: belt, twisting him to one side. He plants his left foot firmly
text: on the toes of Coley's left boot, for a split second anchoring
text: Coley in place. He chops the under side of his open hand in
text: a short, vicious arc that lands solidly under Coley's ear.
text: With the same motion, he brings the heel of his hand hard
text: against and slightly under the tip of Coley's nose. The
text: cartilage shatters. Blood spills down his face. Following
text: through, Macreedy's elbow smashes beneath Coley's cheekbone.
text: Macreedy's arm goes past the astonished, wind-burned face,
text: finding Coley's right wrist. He jerks the wrist out and
text: backward. It snaps. Coley whimpers, his face twisted in pain
text: and perplexity. His body lolls forward. Macreedy steps back.
text: He raises his right shoulder a few inches. His bent right
text: arm drives up like a piston attached to the shoulder's lift.
text: Fist and arm seem all one rigid piece with only the limber
text: shoulder giving them motion. The fist strikes Coley's face,
text: covering for a moment one side of his chin and a corner of
text: his mouth between cheekbone and jawbone. Coley shuts his
text: eyes and falls unconscious.
text: Smith, a puzzled expression on his face, watches Coley fall.
text: He takes half a step toward him. Macreedy looks at Smith.
text: Smith stops. Macreedy's face is wooden, with a trace of
text: sullenness around the hard lines of his mouth. Working
text: methodically, Macreedy frisks Coley. He takes from a pocket
text: a long, ugly knife. He snaps the spring and the four-inch
text: blade leaps into place. He looks at the knife in his hand
text: and then at Smith. He smiles gently, even dreamily.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (to Smith)
dialog: Wouldn't it be easier if you just
dialog: waited till I turned my back?
dialog: (looking toward the
text: loafers at the bar,
dialog: then back at Smith)
dialog: Or are there too many witnesses
dialog: present?
text: Macreedy walks slowly toward him, holding the knife. The are
text: only three feet apart. Smith's hand goes to a pocket, closes
text: inside over the outline of a pistol. Sam glances from Macreedy
text: to Smith to the unconscious Coley. He sidles toward the door
text: and runs out fast. (NOTE: From this point to end of scene
text: INTERCUT from Macreedy and Smith to exploit the reactions of
dialog: the loafers at the bar.)
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (with effortless
dialog: ferocity)
dialog: You're still in trouble.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: So are you.
dialog: (Smith snorts)
dialog: Whatever happens -- you're lost.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: You got things a bit twisted...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: You killed Komako. Sooner or later
dialog: you'll go up for it. Not because you
dialog: killed him -- in this town you
dialog: probably could have gotten away with
dialog: it -- but because you didn't even
dialog: have the guts to do it alone. You
dialog: put your trust in guys like him...
dialog: (gesturing toward the
dialog: unconscious Coley)
dialog: ...and Hector -- they're not the
dialog: most dependable of God's creatures.
dialog: Sooner or later they'll get the idea
dialog: you're playing them for saps. What'll
dialog: you do then -- peel them off, one by
dialog: one? And in the meantime if any one
dialog: of them breaks, you'll go down hard.
dialog: Because they got something on you.
dialog: Something to use when things get
dialog: tough.
text: With a quick motion, he tosses the knife to Smith. Smith
dialog: catches it.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: And they're getting tougher every
dialog: minute.
text: He walks past Smith and goes out the door. Self-consciously
text: holding the knife, Smith turns to face the loafers at the
text: bar. They say nothing; they stare at him, through him, like
text: a panel of ghouls. The door opens, admitting Sam and Doc,
text: who carries his little black medical bag. Doc looks at Coley.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (softly, full of awe)
dialog: Man... man-oh-man.
text: He goes to Coley, bending down over him. Smith has remained
text: motionless as a monument. Now he doubles shut the knife in
text: his hand. He pockets it, and without even glancing at Coley,
text: turns quickly and goes out.
speaker_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL LOBBY
text: Doc sits deep in the battered upholstery of one of the chairs.
text: He stares fiercely across the room at Smith who is on the
text: couch, reading a neatly folded newspaper. Behind him at the
text: clerk's desk, Pete is fitfully involved in a game of
text: solitaire. At the foot of the stairs Hector is pouring change
text: into a slot machine. It whines, grinds, and clicks with
text: rhythmic monotony, but it never seems to pay off. In the
text: chair nearest Doc is Tim, with one of his boots off. He works
text: hard and with some concentration, removing the other. Then
text: he places them neatly at the foot of his chair. He wiggles
text: his toes -- watching them with some interest.
text: The wheeze and whir of the slot machine stops. The sudden
text: silence turns the eyes of the men toward Hector and the one-
text: arm bandit. They follow his gaze up the steps.
scene_heading: STAIRWAY - MACREEDY
text: walks down, carrying his suitcase. He goes to Pete at the
text: clerk's desk.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Anything for me?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Any message -- a telegram?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (returning to his
dialog: cards)
dialog: Nothing.
text: As Macreedy turns from the desk, Doc joins him.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (to Macreedy, shrilly,
dialog: gruffly)
dialog: In case you're interested, Coley'll
dialog: live.
dialog: (glaring at Smith and
dialog: Hector)
dialog: I'm truly sorry to say.
text: Smith coolly continues to read his paper. It is Hector who
text: turns toward Doc...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (to Doc, jerking a
text: fat hand toward
dialog: Macreedy)
dialog: Your friend's pretty tough.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Yeah. He's wicked. He defends himself
text: when he's attacked.
text: Macreedy ignores the exchange of words. He walks across the
text: frayed carpet to the nearest chair and drops into it. Doc,
text: who has followed him, stands looking down at Macreedy for a
dialog: long moment. Then...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (with some irritation)
dialog: Well...? You going to just sit here
dialog: and let time run out?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'm waiting for a wire. From the
dialog: state cops.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You sent it through Hastings?
dialog: (an audible sigh)
dialog: Just don't expect an answer, if that's
dialog: the way you sent it.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (looking toward the
dialog: door)
dialog: No?
dialog: (he rises)
text: Doc follows his gaze as Hastings enters the lobby and looks
text: around. He sees Macreedy coming toward him. He walks rigidly
text: in an arc past Macreedy to Smith. He holds out a Postal
text: Telegraph form. Smith puts down his paper and takes it.
text: Macreedy, followed by Doc, goes over to Smith. Tim in his
text: stockinged feet joins them.
text: Smith scans the message. He looks up to meet Macreedy's gaze.
text: Smith rises. Hector swaggers over from the slot machine.
text: Hastings slips around the back of the couch, protected by
text: the barricade of Hector's great body.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (evenly, to Smith)
dialog: I think that's for me.
dialog: (he takes the message
dialog: from Smith's hand
dialog: and quickly glances
text: at it. Looking up at
dialog: Hastings)
dialog: Where's the answer?
text: Hastings is silent. A brittle expression of bemusement crosses
text: Smith's features.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: You expect an answer -- to a wire
dialog: that's never sent?
text: Macreedy's mouth compresses in a harsh grin.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: What's so funny?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Nothing. Just a thought --
text: (his eyes turn to
dialog: Hastings. Hastings
dialog: wilts)
dialog: -- a thought dazzling in its purity...
text: Macreedy takes a step toward Hastings. The telegraph agent
text: bounces away.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: You're in a jam, Hastings. You gave
dialog: my telegram to Smith.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (excitedly)
dialog: You warty wretch! That's a federal
dialog: offense!
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (to Smith)
dialog: You're in deep, too.
dialog: (grins hard)
dialog: Like I said, it's getting tougher
dialog: and tougher.
dialog: (to Tim)
dialog: Sheriff, you'd better do something
dialog: about this.
text: Tim hesitates, blinking his eyes worriedly, shifting from
text: one stockinged foot to the other. Smith watches him insolently
text: as he takes the message from Macreedy and gestures with it
dialog: vaguely...
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (to Smith)
dialog: I reckon that's right, Mr. Smith...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Don't be a jerk, Tim.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (to Smith, seriously)
dialog: Divulging information -- there's a
dialog: law...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Tim, you're pathetic.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (doggedly)
dialog: Could be. But I'm still Sheriff.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: That's the point. You're not Sheriff
dialog: any more. You just lost a job, you're
dialog: so pathetic.
text: He reaches out, clawing the badge from Tim's chest. He jabs
text: it on Hector's vest.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (to Hector)
dialog: All right, Sheriff. Take over.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You can't do that!
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: Can't I? I put him in office. Now I
dialog: take him out.
text: Hector moves his elephantine bulk within inches of Macreedy...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Now. You want to register a complaint?
text: Macreedy doesn't answer. Hector takes the message from Tim's
text: limp hand and tears it into little pieces.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: To register a complaint, boy, you've
dialog: got to have evidence. You got
dialog: evidence?
text: Macreedy doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You got a big mouth, boy, makin'
dialog: accusations, disturbin' the peace.
dialog: There's laws in this county protectin'
dialog: innocent folks from big mouths. Why,
dialog: I'd just hate to...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Hector...
dialog: (wearily)
dialog: Come on, Hector.
text: He walks out, the new Sheriff strutting beside him, with
text: Hastings in their wake. For a moment Macreedy, Doc and Tim
text: stand in the center of the lobby. Pete eyes them non-
text: committally and goes back to his solitaire. He glances up
text: now and then, moving the cards with a purposeful sort of
text: slowness, as of a more natural swiftness restrained by his
text: preoccupation with the three men in the lobby.
text: Macreedy is deep in thought. Abstractedly he tugs at his
text: collar and then repeats the ritual of lighting a cigarette.
text: Tim's shoulders are slumped. Humiliation has corroded him,
text: flesh and soul. Even Doc is momentarily subdued; he too,
text: feels degraded, unclean. Macreedy looks from one to the other
dialog: of the good, ineffectual companions that circumstance has so
text: haphazardly tossed his way. He takes a few steps to his
text: suitcase, Doc and Tim trailing him; Doc, for want of something
text: better to do; Tim, out of his deep, inexpressible need for
text: support. Macreedy takes an untapped bottle of whiskey from
text: his bag. He thumbs the cork loose and holds the bottle out
text: to Tim. Tim takes a drink.
text: The light on the clerk's desk goes on, and we are aware that
text: day has gone and that night is falling. The pressing, fierce
text: light has drained from the lobby, leaving a shadowy, silvery
text: dreariness. The shadows have lengthened and the silver has
text: tarnished with the darkness.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (hopefully)
dialog: It's all right, Tim. We're not licked
dialog: yet.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (numbly)
dialog: Ain't we? I am.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: There comes a time, Tim, when a man's
dialog: just got to do something.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Not me. I'm useless, and I know it.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (imploring)
dialog: No man is useless, if he's got a
dialog: friend...
text: Pete comes out from behind the desk, walking from one lamp
text: in the lobby to another, turning them on.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I'm your friend, Tim.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Then let me alone.
text: He hands Doc the whiskey bottle.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (jabbing at Macreedy
dialog: with a thumb)
dialog: He's going to need you before the
text: night is over.
text: He downs a snort, then looks at Pete, who approaches them.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (contemptuously)
dialog: And all the useful men are on the
dialog: other side.
text: As Pete turns on the lamp behind Doc, he reacts ever so
text: slightly to Doc's words. His almost imperceptible grimace is
text: not lost on Macreedy. Macreedy watches the young man as he
dialog: continues to light the lamps...
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Lemme alone, I tell ya!
text: Doc slams the whiskey bottle down on a nearby table.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: I can't let you alone! I can't let
dialog: myself alone! Don't you understand
dialog: that?
dialog: (he turns from Tim to
text: Pete, who is unable
text: to shake his gaze.
text: Then, sadly, fiercely)
dialog: Four years ago something terrible
dialog: happened here. We did nothing about
dialog: it. Nothing. The whole town fell
text: into a sort of settled melancholy,
dialog: and the people in it closed their
text: eyes and held their tongues and failed
text: the test with a whimper.
text: Self-consciously Pete has backed off until now he leans
text: against the outside of the clerk's desk. But he still can't
text: shut his ears to what Doc is saying...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Now something terrible is going to
dialog: happen again, and in a way we're
dialog: lucky because we've been given a
dialog: second chance. And this time I won't
dialog: close my eyes, I won't hold my tongue,
dialog: and if I'm needed I won't fail.
dialog: (almost harshly, again
dialog: facing Tim)
dialog: And neither will you!
text: Tim sighs, running a thick hand over his forehead...
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: I got such a headache, I'm bewildered.
dialog: I hurt all over.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I know --
dialog: (unconsciously his
text: right arm strays to
dialog: massage the paralyzed
dialog: left)
dialog: -- pain is bewildering. I came here
text: bewildered, full of self-pity, afraid
dialog: to fight back.
dialog: (gesturing with his
dialog: hand to Pete)
dialog: And then your friend Smith tried to
dialog: kill me.
dialog: (the muscles around
dialog: Pete's mouth tighten)
dialog: Funny, how a man clings to the earth
dialog: when he feels there's a chance he
dialog: may never see it again.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: There's a difference between clinging
dialog: to the earth...
dialog: (eyeing Tim almost
dialog: contemptuously)
dialog: ...and crawling on it. You going to
dialog: stand by and watch forever?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: (flatly)
dialog: I ain't gonna watch, and I ain't
dialog: gonna get into it, either.
text: There is a moment of crashing silence. Then...
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: I'm gettin' out. I'm sorry, Mr.
dialog: Macreedy.
text: Slowly he lumbers out of the lobby. Doc watches him go. Again
text: the benumbing silence, cut finally, unexpectedly by...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (to Doc)
dialog: You'd be smart to get out, too.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (angrily turning to
dialog: Pete)
dialog: There's too many smart guys around
dialog: here. I'm glad I'm a dummy.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: You're a troublesome dummy. You're
dialog: liable to end up on your own slab...
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (heatedly)
dialog: I expect to be in a lot more trouble
dialog: before I die...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Go home, Doc.
text: (he jerks his head
text: toward Macreedy, and
dialog: with mock bravado...)
text: He's all washed up.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (grinning harshly at
dialog: him)
dialog: You think so?
text: His right hand closes over the neck of the whiskey bottle on
text: the end table. Abstractedly fingering it, he walks with tense,
text: deliberate steps toward Pete at the desk.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I was washed up when I got off that
dialog: train...
text: He continues to advance inexorably toward Pete.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (flatly)
dialog: You shouldn' of got off.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Had to. I had one last duty to perform
dialog: before I resigned from the human
dialog: race.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (quizzically)
dialog: I thought you were going to Los
dialog: Angeles, that hot-bed of pomp and
dialog: vanity. Is that resigning from the
dialog: human race?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: L.A.'s a good jumping off place --
dialog: for the Islands, for Mexico, Central
dialog: America.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (again shrugs)
dialog: I don't know. I was looking for a
dialog: place to get lost, I guess.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (slapping his paralyzed
dialog: arm with the whisky
dialog: bottle)
dialog: Because of this. I thought I'd never
dialog: be able to function again.
dialog: (turning to Pete)
dialog: Thanks to your friend Smith, I found
dialog: I was wrong.
text: He is now within a couple of yards of Pete.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (drily)
dialog: Sure. You're a man of action.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: I know your problem.
dialog: (with mounting vigor)
dialog: You'd like me to die quickly, without
dialog: wasting too much of your time...
text: (Pete opens his mouth
dialog: to say something,
dialog: but Macreedy presses
dialog: on)
dialog: ...or silently, without making you
dialog: feel too uncomfortable... or
dialog: thankfully, without making your
dialog: memories of the occasion too
dialog: unpleasant.
text: For a moment Pete stares at Macreedy, terribly disturbed by
text: the incisiveness of Macreedy's analysis. Then...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (bitterly)
dialog: My memories are so pleasant as it
dialog: is...
text: In sudden frustration, Pete grabs the deck of cards on the
text: clerk's desk and slams them down hard. They scatter. He turns,
text: stares blankly [...] between Doc and Macreedy.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (quietly pressing his
dialog: advantage)
dialog: What happened, Pete?
text: Pete doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Are you going to tell him -- or you
dialog: want me to?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Smith owns Adobe Flat. He leased it
dialog: to Komako -- thought he had cheated
dialog: him, thought Komako could never even
dialog: run stock without water. There was
dialog: never any water on Adobe Flat. Komako
text: dug a well, by hand. He must have
text: went down one hundred and fifty feet.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: He got water, plenty. Smith was pretty
dialog: sore. He didn't like Japs anyway.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: That's an understatement.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: The day after Pearl Harbor, Smith
dialog: went to Sand City.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: I know. To enlist. He was turned
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: He was sore when he got back. About
dialog: ten o'clock he started drinking.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
text: Ten o'clock in the morning.
speaker_heading: PETE
text: Yeah. Hector joined him, and Coley.
dialog: Then Sam, and about nine p.m. -- me.
dialog: We were all drunk -- patriotic drunk.
dialog: We went out to Komako's for a little
dialog: fun, I guess -- scare him a little.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Did you know him?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: We'd seen him around some, but none
dialog: of us knew him. When he heard us
text: coming, he locked the door. Smith
text: started a fire. The Jap came running
text: out. His clothes were burning. Smith
dialog: shot him. I didn't even know Smith
dialog: had a gun.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Then you all got scared, buried him,
dialog: kept quiet.
text: Pete nods helplessly, bowing his head. Macreedy sighs, looks
text: down at the bottle in his hand, slowly puts it on the table...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Did Komako have any family besides
dialog: his son Joe?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: His son...? Nobody around here knew
dialog: he had a son.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: He had one. But he's dead, too. He's
dialog: buried in Italy.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: What are you doing here, Mr. Macreedy?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Joe Komako died in Italy, saving my
dialog: life. They gave him a medal. I came
dialog: here to give it to his father.
text: Silence. Doc, realizing the enormity of Macreedy's admission,
text: frowns, rubs a hand across his tired eyes. Pete looks at
text: Macreedy for a long, shocked moment. He shivers.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (awfully)
dialog: God forgive me...
text: He takes the bottle from the table and shakily pours a shot
text: glass of liquor. As he raises it to his mouth...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (to Pete, harshly
dialog: guttural)
dialog: It'll take a lot of whiskey to wash
dialog: out your guts...
text: Pete is motionless, holding the glass inches from his lips,
text: hypnotized by Macreedy's voice, as hard and as cold as his
dialog: eyes...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: ...And it will never help -- not
dialog: even a barrel full washes away murder!
text: Macreedy's hand shoots out, in a short, inexorable arc,
text: smashing his palm across the shot glass. The whiskey bursts
text: in a spray, the glass flies halfway across the room,
text: shattering as it lands against something solid. Pete is
text: stunned, Doc perplexed, at Macreedy's violence. They stare
dialog: at him...
text: Macreedy's eyes are murky. The creases between the brows
text: over his nose are deep. His nostrils move in and out with
text: his breathing. Pete and Doc regard him with growing
text: uneasiness. Rage comes into Macreedy's face, turning it a
text: painful red.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: But maybe I'm wrong. Go on -- drink.
dialog: (scornfully)
dialog: What else is left for you?!
dialog: (mounting anger)
dialog: You're as dead as Komako, only you
dialog: don't know it!
dialog: (roaring)
dialog: You also don't know that it's not
dialog: enough to feel guilty. It's not enough
dialog: to confess. It's not enough to say,
dialog: "Forgive me, I've done wrong."
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Take it easy, Macreedy. Sit down.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (turning on him)
dialog: Sit down?! Or would you rather have
dialog: me kneel, to beg his pardon for
dialog: raising a touchy subject?
text: Pete squirms under Macreedy's relentless attack.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: You don't have to remind me. I've
dialog: never forgotten...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Well, that's mighty noble of you.
dialog: You feel ashamed -- that's noble,
dialog: too.
dialog: (in mounting crescendo)
dialog: And four years from now you'll
dialog: probably be sitting here telling
dialog: somebody else you haven't forgotten
dialog: me. That's progress -- you'll still
dialog: be ashamed but I'll be dead.
text: Macreedy grabs the bottle, shoving it across the table toward
dialog: Pete.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Go on, have your drink.
dialog: (with exorbitant scorn)
dialog: You need it.
text: Pete pushes the bottle aside, too ravaged by Macreedy's words
text: and his own thoughts to drink. He shakes his head grimly and
text: then, with sudden decision, goes to the switchboard and plugs
text: in a line.
speaker_heading: DOC
text: (leaning over counter,
text: staring at him)
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (into phone, ignoring
dialog: Doc)
dialog: Hello, Liz. Now listen... I... 'm
dialog: getting Macreedy out of town...
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - MACREEDY AND DOC
text: as they exchange a glance. Doc takes a long, deep breath of
text: relief. Macreedy frowns thoughtfully. He strains to listen
text: to Liz, but all he (and we) can hear is the staccato jumble
text: of her words over the wire.
scene_heading: WIDER ANGLE - FAVORING PETE
text: he cuts Liz short...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: I don't care about Smith! Let him
dialog: try to kill me -- I might as well be
dialog: dead as...
text: Again Liz's voice incoherent over the phone, and again...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (into phone,
dialog: interrupting)
dialog: Liz, Liz... There's not much of me
dialog: left any more, but however little it
dialog: is I won't waste it!
dialog: (again Liz's voice
dialog: briefly; then...)
dialog: I'm telling you because we need your
dialog: help.
dialog: (again Liz's voice)
dialog: ...No matter about the past -- you've
dialog: got to do this! You'd be saving two
dialog: lives, Liz. Macreedy's, and mine.
dialog: (again Liz answers
dialog: and...)
dialog: All right. Yeah... I've told him
dialog: everything.
text: Slowly he replaces the phone on the switch-board. He comes
text: around from behind the desk, joining Macreedy and Doc.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (flatly)
dialog: She'll be here in five minutes.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Thanks, Pete. Thanks very much.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL LOBBY - PETE, HECTOR AND DOC - NIGHT
text: Pete and Doc are nervously alert, drained of energy, waiting.
text: Hector is downright bored. He toys with his pistol, squinting
text: at it, twirling the barrel. Finding neither interest nor
text: pleasure in the piece, he jams it back in his holster and
text: strolls with exaggerated surety out on the porch.
scene_heading: EXT. PORCH - NIGHT
text: The congregation of loafers look up as Hector emerges. Imbued
text: with his own bullying importance, he draws the pistol,
text: maneuvers an extravagant pinwheel and a few other gaudy
text: tricks. Then he sighs as boredom again takes over. He walks
text: down the steps to catch a bit of air.
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY - DOC AND PETE
text: The disappearance of Hector (o.s.) down the street galvanizes
text: them into action. They hurry out of the lobby toward the
text: back of the hotel.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - BEHIND HOTEL - NIGHT
text: Vague in the pallid light escaping through a few back windows.
text: The hotel's rear door is tightly shut. Around the far corner
text: of the street (extreme b.g.) comes the gangling body of Hector
text: David. He walks toward CAMERA. Perhaps twenty-five yards
text: away he stops to rest against a fence like a leaning tower.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR
text: His hand goes to a pocket and comes out with a crumpled half
text: pack of cigarettes. Suddenly the movement is arrested;
text: something at the other end of the street captures his bleak
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: WHAT HE SEES
text: A jeep, headlights off, slowly turns the corner, pulls up to
text: the curb and parks.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE - HECTOR
text: pockets his cigarettes and starts slowly for the jeep, a
text: quizzical frown on his horsy face. He approaches the back
text: door of the hotel, oblivious to it as he continues toward
text: the jeep.
scene_heading: INT. REAR HALLWAY OF HOTEL - NIGHT
text: At the far end b.g., toward the lobby, a single unshaded
text: light bulb burns dully. A slight figure stands in f.g. To
text: one side is a narrow U-shaped alcove blanketed in heavy
text: shadows. The features of the man in the hall and the slim
text: lines of his body blend vaguely in the darkness. With enormous
text: care, he turns a knob and opens the door leading to the alley
text: behind the hotel. Light thrown by the back windows reveals
text: that the figure is Pete. The same pallid light from the alley,
text: glancing across the alcove, momentarily illuminates it. Glued
text: as close to the recessed wall as is humanly possible is Doc.
text: He is partially shielded by one of those hotel hose wheels
text: around which an old fire hose is wound. The heavy brass nozzle
text: of the hose hangs from the end.
text: Doc grips a twelve-inch length of lead pipe. Pete swallows
text: nervously and peers outside, first to the right, then to the
text: left. His eyes glaze with fear, and his jaw tightens with
dialog: tension.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING PETE
text: as he stares at Hector walking toward the jeep.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (controlling his
dialog: jangled nerves)
dialog: Hector!
text: Hector stops, turns to face Pete. He hesitates, then...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hmmmm?
text: Then, with a final glance at the jeep, Hector lumbers to
text: Pete, who disappears inside the hallway.
scene_heading: INT. REAR HALLWAY
text: as Hector enters and stops. Pete quickly closes the door
text: behind him and walks toward the lobby, attempting to draw
text: Hector toward the black alcove center screen b.g. But Hector
text: is not to be sucked in. He glares at Pete, waiting. (NOTE:
text: The following dialogue is delivered sotto voce.)
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What you want?
speaker_heading: PETE
text: He's still in his room. Macreedy, I
dialog: mean.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: So...? You want me to tuck him in?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: I thought maybe you wanted to tell
dialog: Smith.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: (explaining something
dialog: he feels Pete already
dialog: knows)
dialog: Smith said he'd be here at midnight.
dialog: He don't want to be disturbed.
text: He jams a cigarette in his mouth. Pete watches him frantically
text: as he searches his pockets for a match. He can't find one.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You got a match?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Come on. I got some in the lobby.
text: He starts to turn. Hector's pig eyes are slits of suspicion.
text: Before Pete can move, Hector reaches out, hooking two heavy
text: fingers inside a pocket of Pete's shirt. Slowly Hector's
text: expression changes to one of insidious cunning. His fingers
text: come out of Pete's pocket, and between them is a paper book
dialog: of matches.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I thought you didn't have a match.
text: Pete is unable to answer. He is scared to death.
scene_heading: INT. ALCOVE - DOC
text: sweating with frustration. Hector is six feet away, and armed --
text: too far away for Doc to risk an attack with his lead pipe.
text: Doc looks around vaguely, wildly, for another weapon. A
text: fraction of an inch from his nose is the hose wheel. For a
text: split second he hesitates. Then slowly, with infinite care,
text: he tightens the heavy brass nozzle and begins to unwind the
dialog: hose.
scene_heading: INT. REAR HALLWAY
text: Now Hector is alert. He studies Pete's twitching face.
text: Elaborately he tears a match from the pack and scratches it.
text: It takes fire, cupped in the rampart of his big hands. It
text: lights up the hall, and as Hector looks around he sees
text: something through a mirror -- over his shoulder and six feet
text: away Doc materializes out of the shadows of the alcove. As
text: Hector whirls, going for his gun, Doc swings the hose with
text: sudden deadly aim. It uncoils like a snake, and the brass
text: nozzle crashes with a mighty thud across Hector's skull.
text: Hector groans. He sinks unconscious to the floor. Doc stands
text: there, paralyzed by his action. Pete tears toward the lobby.
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY
text: as Pete rushes in. He moves directly to the desk, leans over
text: and presses the buzzer behind the desk three times. He turns
text: and runs back toward the rear of the building.
scene_heading: INT. REAR STAIRS
text: as Macreedy barrels down. He pauses briefly in the hall as
text: he sees Doc still standing with the hose and the nozzle
text: dangling like a pendulum from his hand. Their eyes lock
text: briefly in understanding...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (with a half smile)
dialog: I'll never forgive you, Doc...
text: (he gestures toward
dialog: Hector, out cold)
dialog: ...for depriving me of that pleasure.
text: He heads toward the alley.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY
text: as Macreedy rushes out. He pauses, looking quickly right,
text: then left. He sees a jeep parked at the curb far down the
text: street. He runs toward it. The jeep, its headlights off,
text: starts for him. He swings onto the moving vehicle, falling
text: heavily into the seat beside Liz Brooks. He slumps there,
text: breathing heavily as the jeep, with a grinding of gears,
text: cuts through the night, picking up speed.
scene_heading: INT. REAR HALLWAY
text: as Pete joins Doc. Silently, motionlessly, the two men stare
text: for a long moment at Hector -- particularly at the pistol
text: lying beside him. Then they look at each other, and the same
text: thought seems to flash in their minds...
speaker_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - MACREEDY AND LIZ
text: as they speed down the long empty ribbon of road. Liz drives
text: hard. Macreedy turns in the bucket seat, looking back toward
dialog: Black Rock.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Sorry I can't get more out of this
dialog: heap.
text: Macreedy does not answer.
speaker_heading: LIZ
text: (with a burst of
dialog: irritation)
dialog: We could make better time with a dog
dialog: team.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: You're doing the best you can.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Aren't you, Liz?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Don't expect too much from me.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (dryly)
dialog: Don't worry, I won't.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: I mean, people have always expected
dialog: things from me. You know why? Because
dialog: I'm pretty. Well, that's not enough.
scene_heading: MED. SHOT - JEEP
text: with Liz and Macreedy as she cuts sharply into a crossroad.
text: She drives skillfully over the knotty road which is little
text: more than a trail. Her lovely features are distorted with
text: her discontent and the ache for attention. After a moment
text: she gives voice to her fantasy...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Maybe I could have been something --
dialog: a model, or something.
dialog: (glancing at him)
dialog: You don't believe that.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Yes I do.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Well, I don't, really. I'm a dime a
dialog: dozen.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: That I don't believe.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I'm too little and too late.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: It's never too late.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I lack the muscle.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (frowning)
dialog: Why is muscle so important?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (cynically)
dialog: Oh, you're the brainy type.
dialog: (harshly)
dialog: Did it take brains to rough up Coley?
dialog: Whatever you did to Hector, you didn't
dialog: do it with brains. How'd you get
dialog: Pete to change his mind?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Not with muscle.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: And not with brains, either. He's a
text: pushover for a muscle man.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'm beginning' to think it runs in
dialog: the family.
dialog: (looking at her hard)
dialog: You think strength is in the width
text: of a man's shoulders.
text: He does not catch the glance she darts him; his extreme
text: awareness is anchored not to the girl at his side but to the
text: terrain ahead.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I'd sure have liked to see you tangle
dialog: with Reno Smith.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: He wasn't around when I left... Maybe
dialog: I will yet.
text: His eyes strain to sweep the country -- each boulder, each
text: outcropping, each stunted tree. But substance and shadow are
text: blurred and fuzzy in the dark night, black on black.
speaker_heading: OUT
dialog: Sequence omitted from original script.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - JEEP
text: with Macreedy and Liz as it winds to the far end of the
text: boulders on a trail that drops off into a flat basin. Solid
text: forms loom up in the darkness; they are unrecognizable, yet
text: Macreedy senses some tense familiarity with the terrain...
text: He frowns. Suddenly Liz brakes the jeep -- so sharply Macreedy
text: lurches forward in the seat.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (alert, expectant)
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (vamping nervously)
dialog: We need water...
dialog: (she turns off engine,
dialog: pulling ignition key
dialog: from its lock)
text: ...radiator's overheating.
text: She moves away from Macreedy to get out of the jeep. He
text: reaches across quickly, gripping her arm. She turns to face
text: him, disturbed by his hardness of jaw and eye...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Leggo! Leggo of me!
text: Suddenly they are hit by a blinding pair of headlights like
text: [...] The beams cut jaggedly through the night, throwing
text: into sharp immediate relief the lava rocks, the broken
text: windmill, the gutted house, the litter-strewn, unmarked grave
dialog: at Adobe Flat.
text: Liz throws away the ignition key. Macreedy bails out of the
text: jeep, still holding the girl.
scene_heading: CLOSE TWO SHOT - LIZ AND MACREEDY
text: as they fall to the earth. Macreedy pins her down. Then in
text: quick succession, four emphatically loud SHOTS from a rifle
text: squirt into the shale around them.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (harshly, through his
dialog: teeth)
dialog: You're stupid, Liz. You're a fool.
dialog: If he finishes me, he's got to finish
dialog: you.
text: He looks up blindly into the headlights glaring from the
text: granitic high ground some 60 yards away. His grip on the
text: girl's shoulder is like a steel trap. He pushes her down
text: beside Komako's grave, hugging the side of the jeep as a
text: SHOT rips the gravel at their feet. Pulling the girl with
text: him, he takes cover in the slight concavity of the grave.
text: The jeep is between them and the headlights -- between them
text: and the source of the gunfire. Liz struggles to break away.
text: Suddenly bullets kick up a storm around him. A bullet smashes
text: into the flowers, exploding tiny cruel fragments of dirt
text: into Macreedy's face. He gasps in pain, releasing Liz. He
text: rubs his eyes as if to convince himself that he is not blind.
text: Liz breaks from the grave. Now, five yards from Macreedy...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (calling toward the
dialog: headlights)
dialog: Smitty! Smitty!
speaker_heading: SMITH'S VOICE
dialog: (o.s.)
dialog: I'm here, honey. Just head for the
dialog: car.
text: Liz half turns, facing Macreedy with a vicious smile...
speaker_heading: LIZ
text: (an almost bantering
dialog: voice)
dialog: So long, Macreedy.
text: She starts toward the headlights.
speaker_heading: GO WITH LIZ
text: She reaches the foot of the rocky ridge, with the two enormous
text: eyes on top. She begins to climb, up... up...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (o.s.)
dialog: Just a few more steps, honey.
text: She is almost at the top; a vertically sheer rock about five
text: feet high separates her from it. She looks up at Smith,
text: towering over her at the edge of the precipice. He holds his
text: rifle almost languorously.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (breathlessly)
dialog: Get him! Get him now!
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (easily)
dialog: First things first, honey.
text: The girl is frightened by the menace in Smith's voice.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (unsure, reaching out
dialog: her hand)
dialog: Help me up, Smitty.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: You were going to help me, Liz.
text: (she looks at him
dialog: quizzically)
dialog: I still need your help.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (confused)
dialog: I did what you said...
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: You two started out in a car. That's
dialog: the way you'll end up. Over a cliff,
dialog: burning.
dialog: (she tries to interrupt
dialog: him, but he goes
dialog: on...)
dialog: You can blame that on Macreedy, too.
dialog: He said I had too many witnesses.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (dry whisper)
dialog: But why me? Why start with me?
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: I got to start with somebody.
text: He brings the rifle down, aiming almost casually at Liz. Her
text: eyes go wide. She steps back, spins around, running crazily
text: down the steep incline.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (yelling wildly)
dialog: Macreedy! Macreedy!
text: A SHOT rings out. She falls forward, rolling slowly down the
text: embankment. She lies there. Blood trickles from the corner
text: of her pretty mouth. A rattling noise rises from deep in her
text: throat, and then subsides.
text: In the silence the outline of Reno Smith emerges. Holding
text: his rifle at the ready, his silhouette illuminated sharply
text: in the twin beams of light, he climbs down the side of the
text: cliff. He looks toward the jeep and Macreedy, not once at
text: the girl at his feet.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (sadly, almost
dialog: reproachfully)
dialog: You shouldn't have done that...
text: Smith pays no attention to her. He advances inexorably with
text: rifle held at his hip. He fires at Macreedy.
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVE
text: Macreedy wipes the last of the fragments from his eyes. His
text: face is still streaked with dirt and shale. He turns,
text: searching for something, anything, to fight back with. Then
text: he remembers... Stiffening, his body set, his eyes narrow,
text: he moves purposefully toward the front of the jeep and crawls
text: under it. Again Smith opens up on him. Bullet after bullet
text: pours into the confined space, nicking the wall, ricocheting
text: off the jeep with a frightening, fluttery, wheezing sound.
text: The firing stops again and in the silence we HEAR a familiar
dialog: TRICKLE, as in running water...
scene_heading: EXT. RANCH - SMITH
text: re-loads his rifle. Stiffly, he starts slowly down over the
text: rocks toward his unarmed victim...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
text: He has unscrewed the nut and unconnected the gas line with
text: the carburator. A spurt of gasoline is running out. With a
text: quick motion he picks up an empty whisky bottle from the
text: litter-strewn earth. He fills it with gasoline, quickly screws
text: the nut back on. Now he sweeps his necktie free of his collar.
text: Holding it with his teeth, he tears the felt lining free
text: from its silk face. He twists half the lining inside the
text: bottle, knotting the other end securely around the bottle's
text: neck, leaving a long strand dangling.
scene_heading: EXT. RANCH - CLOSE SHOT - SMITH
text: moving rigidly toward the hole. He stops, levels his rifle,
dialog: fires.
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVE - MACREEDY
text: pinned down in the direct line of fire. The burst of the
text: rifle stops.
scene_heading: EXT. RANCH - SMITH
text: not more than twenty-five yards away, advancing carefully,
text: rifle at the ready.
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVE - MACREEDY
text: lights a match, placing the flame to the dangling end of the
text: tie. It catches. He flings himself to his feet and with the
text: same motion whips the fiery bottle like a football, hard and
text: straight toward Smith. Smith fires once, fast and wild. The
text: bottle crashes against the rocks at his feet and bursts with
text: a shattering explosion. Smith screams as the razor-sharp
text: slivers rip his flesh. In a puff of flame, his clothes ignite.
text: He drops the rifle and goes down, squirming frantically on
text: the black ashy ground.
scene_heading: EXT. RANCH - FULL SHOT
text: favoring Macreedy as he tears out of the hole. He hurls
text: himself at Smith. Wooden-faced, almost dreamy-eyed, he shovels
text: the ashy dirt over Smith's prone chest, putting out the fire.
text: Smith struggles halfway to his feet. Macreedy grabs his
text: shoulder, helping him up. Smith looks at Macreedy through
text: eyes bleary with fear and pain and shock.
speaker_heading: SMITH
dialog: (through his teeth)
dialog: Go ahead -- kill me. Now.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: I'd like to kill you now, but you
dialog: caused too much pain to die quickly.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: You'll be tried in a court of law.
dialog: You'll be convicted by a jury. Then
dialog: you'll die.
text: He drives his right fist against Smith's chin. Smith's head
text: snaps back as far as it can go and then wobbles to rest on
text: his chest. He collapses. Macreedy blows out his breath hard.
text: He staggers to Liz. As he bends over her...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: EXT. BLACK ROCK - DAY (DAWN)
text: Liz's jeep, driven by Macreedy, rolls slowly down the empty
text: main street of the sleeping town. Behind him, under a tarp,
text: the body of the girl lies lifeless across the seat. On the
text: seat beside him is Smith's rifle, the balance a few inches
text: from Macreedy's elbow. On the right front fender of the jeep
text: Smith sits precariously, his shirt scorched and ragged. He
text: wears a sullen expression of pained indifference.
text: In b.g., as the jeep passes, isolated lights go on, first in
text: Doc's house, then in two or three others. Macreedy is
text: oblivious to them.
scene_heading: EXT. JAIL - CLOSE SHOT - A MAN
text: almost completely hidden, looks out grimly from a corner of
text: the jail window. Protruding through the bars, swiveling to
text: follow the progress of the jeep down the street, is the long,
text: ugly muzzle of a rifle.
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET - JEEP
text: as Macreedy pulls up to the curb in front of the jail and
text: cuts the ignition. He grabs the rifle, and steps around to
dialog: Smith.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
text: (tonelessly, prodding
text: Smith off the fender
dialog: with his rifle)
dialog: Hands behind your head.
text: Smith complies.
scene_heading: EXT. JAIL
text: as Macreedy marches Smith up the steps. The jail door opens.
text: A man emerges, wearing a Mackinaw over his vest and carrying
text: a rifle. It is Tim. For a moment Macreedy eyes him in silence.
text: His gun finger tightens on the rifle in his hand. Tim's rifle,
dialog: too, is at the ready...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: Am I going to have trouble with you?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Nope. But I sure thought the situation
dialog: was going to be like reversed. I
dialog: thought I was going to have trouble...
dialog: (nodding sharply in
dialog: Smith's direction)
dialog: ...with him. I'll take care of him.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (still hesitating)
dialog: Just as you took care of his buddies?
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: Just as I took care of his buddies.
dialog: Me, an' Doc, and Pete...
text: The SOUND of running feet padding along the dirt road
text: increases on SOUND TRACK. Macreedy turns slightly, to see
text: Doc huffing toward him. The older man climbs the jail steps
text: and comes to an abrupt halt, his eyes going from one to the
text: other of the two men in the stand-off.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (to Macreedy)
dialog: It's all right, Macreedy...
text: He pulls Tim's Mackinaw to one side, revealing the silver-
text: plated star pinned at the breast.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Old Tim here's got his badge back.
text: Macreedy swings his rifle from Tim to Smith. Tim lowers his,
text: stepping to one side, allowing Smith, covered by Macreedy,
text: to enter the jail. He goes in, Doc following. Pete sits
text: silently at Tim's desk.
scene_heading: INT. JAIL
text: In one of the two cells are Coley and Hector. In the other,
text: Sam and Hastings.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Well. The gang is all here.
speaker_heading: TIM
dialog: I thought I'd take one last whack at
dialog: my job. Even if Smith killed me for
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (jerking his head
dialog: toward Smith)
dialog: Put him in with Hastings.
text: Tim turns his key in the cell door. Macreedy tiredly goes to
text: Pete at the desk.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Your sister's outside, Pete.
text: Pete rises. Macreedy halts him momentarily, gripping his
dialog: arm...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (flatly)
text: She's dead.
text: Pete walks dazedly out the door. Tim grabs Smith's shoulder
text: and propels him roughly through the cell door. He slams it
text: hard. As the clatter of the iron door reverberates harshly...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL - BLACK ROCK - DAY
text: The townspeople, with Doc f.g., are gathered silently in the
text: street, staring sadly, dumbly at the hotel before them. Doc
text: wears a dark business suit, neat and conservative. The door
text: opens (o.s.) and the people look up, their eyes lighting
dialog: with expectancy.
dialog: WHAT THEY SEE
text: Macreedy comes out of the door, carrying his suitcase. For a
text: moment he pauses, looking at the uplifted faces of the people
text: in the street. In the distance we HEAR the horn of a stream-
text: liner. Macreedy goes down the steps, skirts the watching
text: crowd and heads for the railroad station. Almost immediately
text: Doc falls in step with him. The townspeople, still silent,
dialog: trail after them
scene_heading: MOVING SHOT - MACREEDY AND DOC
text: in f.g., the townspeople behind them. In b.g., as we pass,
text: we see the main street just as we saw it when Macreedy entered
dialog: town a few short hours ago.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: (walking, after a
dialog: beat, to Doc)
dialog: Tim knows where to find me if I'm
dialog: needed.
text: Doc nods. He blinks and frowns...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: What's on your mind, Doc?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Nothing. Only... about that medal.
dialog: Can we have it?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: "We...?" Can who have it?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: We.
dialog: (indicating the
text: townspeople, with a
dialog: vague wave of his
dialog: hand)
dialog: Us.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Well, we need it, I guess. It's
dialog: something we can maybe build on.
dialog: This town is wrecked, just as bad as
dialog: if it was bombed out. Maybe it can
dialog: come back...
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Some towns come back. Some don't. It
dialog: depends on the people.
text: A NOISE o.s. attracts Macreedy's attention. He turns, as do
text: Doc and the townsmen.
dialog: WHAT THEY SEE
text: In front of the jail, each of them handcuffed, are Smith,
text: Coley, Hector, Sam and Hastings. Tim and four cops escort
text: them to two State Police cars which are parked beside Tim's
text: old sedan and another car (presumably belonging to a member
text: of the press). The newspaperman (WITHOUT A PRESS CARD IN HIS
text: HAT) stands to one side with Pete. Pete as well as Tim have
text: changed clothes; they look clean and trim. Coley has his arm
text: in a sling. Hector's hat hides the bandage on his head.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Macreedy resumes walking toward the abandoned station, with
text: Doc at his side and the people behind him. The train pulls
dialog: in.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (still pressing)
dialog: That medal would help.
text: Macreedy is silent. He walks on, to the platform. He pauses,
text: looking at the people silently in his wake and then at Doc.
text: He takes a black velvet-covered box from his pocket -- the
text: box containing the medal -- looks at it, and slowly hands it
dialog: to Doc.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Thanks, Macreedy. Thanks for
dialog: everything.
text: Macreedy turns and exits from SHOT. The people look after
dialog: him.
scene_heading: EXT. PLATFORM
text: as Macreedy boards the train.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: The cars in front of the jail U-turn and start off with the
text: prisoners. The people move silently toward the train.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN
text: Macreedy is at the passageway. Slowly the train moves out.
scene_heading: INT. PASSAGEWAY OF TRAIN
text: Macreedy and a conductor stand at the doorway. The town is
text: seen behind them and the people standing there. In the
text: distance, Tim's car recedes.
speaker_heading: CONDUCTOR
dialog: (curiously)
dialog: What's the excitement? What happened?
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
text: A shooting.
speaker_heading: CONDUCTOR
dialog: I knew it was something. First time
dialog: a streamliner stopped here in four
dialog: years.
speaker_heading: MACREEDY
dialog: Second time.
text: He walks into the train.
scene_heading: LONG SHOT - TRAIN
text: gathering speed, diminishing, far, far into the horizon.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT:
speaker_heading: THE END
speaker_heading: NOTES
dialog: Note from page [9]: (1) The sign should be of whatever type
dialog: is feasible and compatible to terrain, emphasizing the
dialog: remoteness of Black Rock. It should list three cities with
text: arrows pointing in the proper directions:
scene_heading: SAND CITY 32 MILES
speaker_heading: PHOENIX 156 MILES
dialog: 
