text: BAD TIMES AT THE EL ROYALE
dialog: by
dialog: Drew Goddard
dialog: Final Shooting Draft
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 1.
scene_heading: INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY/NIGHT
text: It’s 1958. We’re in a lonely motel room.
text: A key hits the lock. A MAN throws open the door and races
text: into the room. He slams the door. He peeks out the window
text: and studies the parking lot.
text: He struggles to catch his breath.
text: We may notice blood on the sleeves of his suit.
text: This is FELIX O’ KELLY.
text: He steps away from the window. He’s carrying a RED DUFFEL
text: BAG. He sets it down and surveys his room.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Felix shoves the bed to the side of the room.
dialog: [Note: for the duration of this sequence, the camera remains
text: in the same position. Fast jump cuts.]
text: Felix opens his red duffel bag. He removes a crowbar. A
text: hammer. A handgun.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Felix, his jacket off now, yanks up the carpet from the
text: corner of the room, revealing the WOODEN FLOOR BOARDS below.
text: Felix looks at the floor boards. Looks at his tools.
dialog: Thinks.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Felix adjusts THE RADIO antenna. Static. He fiddles with
text: the dial. Fifties folk-pop fills the room as Felix finds a
text: station playing “26 Miles” by The Four Preps.
text: Twenty-six miles across the sea, Santa Catalina is a-waiting
dialog: for me...
text: Felix turns up the volume.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Felix hammers the crowbar between slats in the center of the
text: room. The sound is somewhat muffled by the radio.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 2.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: He pries up the floorboards one by one.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Santa Catalina, the island of romance, romance, romance...
text: We may notice it’s NIGHT outside now. Felix has his
text: shirtsleeves rolled up. He’s covered in sweat. There’s now
text: a large hole in the floor. The floorboards are all neatly
text: stacked to the side.
text: Felix zips up the duffel bag. We never get a good look at
dialog: what’s inside.
text: He drops the bag inside the hole.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Felix replaces the floor boards. He hammers the nails in
text: time to the music. He smokes while he works.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Felix rolls the carpet back. Stamps it down in the corner.
text: He looks down at the hammer in his hand. Looks at the
text: crowbar on the bed. Thinks.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: The room is empty now. Through the open door, we can see
text: it’s raining outside. We hear a trunk SLAM.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: A soaking wet Felix crawls on his hands and knees and scoops
text: up the sawdust on the carpet. He stands. Surveys the room.
dialog: Looks good.
text: Felix catches a glimpse of himself in the LARGE MIRROR
text: mounted on the wall. Looks less good.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Felix stands in front of his mirror. He combs his hair with
text: a black plastic comb.
text: Twenty-six miles across the sea...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 3.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
text: Felix paces back and forth. He stubs out one cigarette and
text: lights another.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Felix sits in the wooden chair in the corner. He smokes.
text: The ashtray next to him is filled with butts.
text: HEADLIGHTS flare the curtains. Felix stubs out his
dialog: cigarette.
text: Forty kilometers in a leaky old boat...
text: There’s a knock at the door.
text: Felix grabs the handgun from the night stand. Moves to the
text: peephole. Studies the outside world.
dialog: Any old thing that'll stay afloat...
text: His shoulders relax when he sees who it is.
text: Felix throws the latch. Opens the door. Gestures for the
dialog: person to come on in...
text: BOOM. A shotgun BLAST hits Felix O’Kelly square in the back.
text: He’s launched clear across the room, and the second his body
text: SLAMS INTO CAMERA, blood splashing the lens --
scene_heading: CUT TO TITLE:
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale
text: Over black. Title clears. A new song ("25 Miles”) signals a
text: new era. Driving sixties soul as Edwin Starr calls out, “All
dialog: right, feet, start moving..."
speaker_heading: TITLE: Ten years later
scene_heading: EXT. EL ROYALE - DAY
text: The El Royale is a motor lodge nestled in the woods north of
dialog: Lake Tahoe. It once had dreams of being a mid-level vacation
text: hideaway. Those dreams do not appear to have been realized.
dialog: “You've got to get me there...”
text: A wooden arch bears the name of the establishment, welcomes
text: visitors to the mostly-empty parking lot.
text: A dented gray Studebaker drives through the arch.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 4.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The defining characteristic of the parking lot is A RED LINE
text: that bisects the lot dead center and leads straight to the
text: double doors of the lobby lodge.
dialog: “It's twenty-five miles from home..."
text: The Studebaker parks. The driver opens her door. We get a
dialog: better look at her:
text: Late thirties. African-American. As she stares at the El
text: Royale, we can almost hear her thinking, “How in the Lord’s
dialog: name did I end up in this lonely place?”
text: This is DARLENE SWEET.
text: She opens her trunk and removes HER ODD BAGS. One is a large
text: flowered suitcase. The other appears to be an enormous roll
text: of fabric, bound with a rope around it.
dialog: It would be too much luggage for a lumberjack, let alone
text: Darlene. But she lifts the burden without complaint,
text: balancing one in each arm.
text: As she approaches the lodge, she notices A MAN standing in
dialog: the parking lot:
text: He’s in his sixties. He’s wearing a priest collar. He’s
text: staring at the hotel. He looks lost and confused.
text: This is FATHER DANIEL FLYNN.
text: Darlene slows when she sees him.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Are... you lost, Father?
text: Flynn almost jumps when he hears her. His eyes become clear
text: again, as though he just awoke from a dream. He smiles.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: No. No, I suppose not.
dialog: (looks down)
dialog: According to this, I’m in Nevada.
text: ON THE GROUND: the RED LINE runs right between them. On the
text: west side of the line, stenciled letters read “California.”
text: On the east side of the line, “Nevada.”
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: I’ve never been to Nevada. What’s
dialog: it like?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 5.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 2
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
text: Not bad. Looks like it might rain.
dialog: What’s California like?
text: Darlene looks over her shoulder to the west.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
text: Still sunny.
text: Flynn picks up his valise.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Can I give you a hand there?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: That's very kind of you, thank you.
text: She hands him the flowered suitcase. If Flynn is curious
text: about the strange roll of fabric in Darlene’s arms, he gives
dialog: no indication.
text: They walk towards the motel. The border leads straight to a
text: set of doors, one door on each side of the line.
text: They enter through the California side.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - DAY
text: Ring-ring. The front door chimes as Darlene and Flynn enter
dialog: and study the unique accommodations:
text: The interior of the El Royale plays on the same border theme.
text: The line bisects the large room perfectly in two.
text: ON THE CALIFORNIA SIDE: everything is decorated in warm
text: orange hues. We may notice a bar, a set of tables, a lounge
dialog: seating area.
text: ON THE NEVADA SIDE: everything is decorated in cool purple
text: hues. We may notice the front desk, some gaming tables, a
text: black and white television currently showing coverage of
dialog: Richard Nixon’s 1969 inauguration speech.
text: At the back of the room, half in California and half in
text: Nevada, is a colorful JUKEBOX.
text: Flynn looks down at the border, Darlene follows his gaze.
text: They're both standing in California. Flynn gestures: be my
dialog: guest.
text: Darlene smiles. Takes a mock deep breath...
text: And steps across the border.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 6.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: How are you enjoying Nevada so far?
text: Darlene shrugs. So far, so good.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Those are my accoutrements...
text: The voice has a thick Mississippi accent. It’s coming from
text: behind the bar on the California side. A man wearing a
text: charmingly rumpled seersucker suit reveals himself:
scene_heading: This is LARAMIE SEYMOUR SULLIVAN.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: (points)
text: At the front desk there.
text: They look to the front desk, where a large amount of luggage
text: has been piled.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: That’s my trunk, that’s my
dialog: fortnighter, that’s my hat case.
dialog: And I’d ask that you folk respect
dialog: my claim when it comes time to
dialog: divvy the rooms. Though when
dialog: that'll be is anyone’s guess. I
dialog: been ringin’ that bell so long my
text: hand’s sore and my ears is tired
dialog: and my constitution needs coffee.
dialog: So. That’s why I’m back here
text: scroungin’.
text: He holds up a pack of coffee grounds. He dumps it into the
text: elaborate machine behind the counter.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Success! Though I can’t say I
dialog: vouch for the quality.
text: He starts the machine. While it grinds and grumbles, Laramie
text: crosses the room, extends his hand to Flynn.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Laramie Seymour Sullivan. Sales
dialog: manager, Calhoun Appliances. My
text: name may not be on the masthead,
dialog: but that don’t mean it ain’t a
dialog: family business.
text: He hands Flynn a business card. Tips his hat to Darlene.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 7.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ma’am.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: What should I call you, Father?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Daniel Flynn. It is nice to meet
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Father Flynn, huh. That’s easy to
dialog: remember, alliterative and such.
dialog: Whereabouts is your parish?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: The Immaculate Heart of Mary’s in
dialog: Bloomington, Indiana.
text: A beat as Laramie sizes up Flynn.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Well.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Let me just say up front that me
dialog: and the good people of East Biloxi
dialog: Baptist may have our differences
dialog: with your Pope, but in our hearts
dialog: we both believe in the divinity of
dialog: Jesus Christ, and that makes us
dialog: brothers as far as I’m concerned.
dialog: Who handles your hospitality at the
dialog: Heart of Mary?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I'm sorry?
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: You know, who keeps the place clean
dialog: and tidy?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Her... name is Barbara.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Could I trouble you for Barbara’s
dialog: phone number? I believe the good
dialog: Lord has put me in your path to
dialog: make her life easier.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 8.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 3
text: Flynn studies Laramie. Thinks.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I confess my memory is not what it
dialog: used to be. But I have it written
dialog: down in my valise. I'd be happy to
dialog: get it for you once I check-in and
text: am squared away.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: I'd sure appreciate it. Though,
dialog: again, Lord only knows when that'd
dialog: be.
text: He points to the brass bell on the front desk.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: You can go ahead and give it a
dialog: whirl. I ain’t had much luck with
dialog: it.
dialog: (turns)
dialog: How ‘bout you, darlin’ -- you in
dialog: the hospitality business?
text: Darlene seems genuinely taken aback.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I -- how did you know my name?
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Your name is “Darlin’?” Ain’t that
dialog: a pip! And they say fate died in
dialog: ‘63.
text: Darlene realizes the mistake.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Oh. Sorry. I thought you said...
dialog: never mind. I’m not in the
dialog: hospitality business. No.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Well, I’1l give you my card
dialog: nonetheless. I’m sure you know
dialog: some gals who need a vacuum.
text: A beat. Then Father Flynn rings the bell.
text: The group waits in awkward silence. No response. Laramie
dialog: rolls his eyes: see what I mean?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 9.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 3
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: This your first time at the El
dialog: Royale?
text: Both Flynn and Darlene nod. Laramie crosses back to the bar.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: It didn't always used to be like
dialog: this. And I don’t jus’ mean you
text: could find the clerk come check-in.
dialog: Naw, this place used to be hustlin’
dialog: and bustlin’. Tahoe’s best kept
dialog: secret. I mean, it was always a
dialog: novelty, but there’s state fair
dialog: novelty and old horse novelty and
dialog: we are now firmly in the old horse
dialog: variety.
text: He removes the coffee carafe from the machine and grabs three
text: cups. As he starts making his way back across the room:
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: ‘66 this place had swing. Hell,
dialog: I’m sure I couldn’t get a main
dialog: lodge room if I tried.
text: He points to the photographs adorning the California wall.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: It was a hidey hole for the Tahoe
text: swells.
text: Darlene looks at the photos. The El Royale in more
text: boisterous times. There’s Frank Sinatra lounging by the
text: pool. There’s Martin Luther King, Jr. shaking hands with a
text: crowd of well-wishers. There’s Bobby Kennedy making pop-
text: superstar VESTA SHEARS laugh.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Dean Martin even sang a song about
dialog: it. “Half In California With
dialog: Judy?”
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: No?
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Wasn’t one of his best. Coffee?
text: Flynn nods. Sure. Darlene shakes her head.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No, thank you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 10.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5)
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Aw, come on. I made a whole pot.
dialog: Can’t let it go to waste.
text: He hands her a cup. Take it. She relents.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (as he pours)
dialog: Atta girl. I'll let the clerk give
dialog: you the whole spiel, should he ever
dialog: show up, I mean. But the part they
dialog: tend to leave out is about, oh, a
dialog: year ago this place lost its
dialog: gambling license. Some problems
dialog: with the commission or something.
dialog: And so the swells took their
dialog: business elsewhere. Now the main
dialog: lodge is all that’s open and the
text: pool is filled with ducks and they
dialog: rent rooms by the hour if you ask
text: quiet-like.
dialog: (then)
dialog: ‘Course, if we’re bein’ honest,
dialog: that’s probably why a priest, a
dialog: vacuum salesman, and a Negro can
dialog: afford freight here, right Father?
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: I’m just funnin’. My stay’s on
dialog: Calhoun Appliances, if I’m bein’
dialog: truthful, which is why room choice
dialog: is so important and I ask you to
dialog: respect my accoutrements there as a
dialog: proxy for my person. I intend to
dialog: lavish myself. Always wanted to
dialog: stay in The Honeymoon Suite.
text: He holds up his left hand. His ring finger is bare.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Though I am not currently on my
dialog: honeymoon.
text: They wait in awkward silence. They sip their coffee.
text: A light bulb goes off over Flynn's head. As though he’s been
dialog: thinking about something else this entire time:
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Oh.
dialog: (turns)
dialog: “Darlene.”
text: Darlene nods. Smiles.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 11.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (6) 3
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: Nice to meet you, Darlene.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Nice to meet you too, Father.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Well, hell. We have to wait much
dialog: longer, I might as well open up
dialog: that there trunk and set up the
dialog: Calhoun Electrovax. Give you folks
dialog: a proper demonstration. You sure
dialog: you ain’t in the hospitality
dialog: business, darlin’?
text: Darlene, once again, shakes her head.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No, sir. I am not.
text: She walks behind the front desk to THE DOOR that says
text: “Employees Only.” Gives it a proper thumping with her fist.
dialog: Wham wham wham.
text: There’s a THUD from behind the door.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Ho! The lady’s got a luckier hand
dialog: than we do, Father. Shame these
dialog: here tables is decommissioned, we
dialog: could make ourselves some real
dialog: money.
text: We hear fumbling. Footsteps. The door finally swings open, 4
text: revealing a twenty-year-old kid with a baby face and an ill-
text: fitting desk clerk jacket. He looks a bit like a wet rat.
text: This is MILES MILLER.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I’m very sorry to keep you waiting.
dialog: If you had to guess how long it has been since Miles has last
dialog: slept, you'd probably go with “Five days.”
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Damn, boy, I been in this lobby so
dialog: long, I’m due for a shave. What's
dialog: wrong with you?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I'm very sorry.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 12.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Miles stops cold. If it’s possible for him to go paler, he
text: does when he sees Father Flynn.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: Wh... what are you doing here,
dialog: Father?
text: Flynn seems genuinely unsettled.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Do I know you, son?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: No. But... I mean... this is not a
dialog: place for a priest, Father. You
dialog: shouldn’t be here.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: We may need to work on your sales
dialog: pitch, boy. “The El Royale: Ain't
dialog: No Place For A Priest.”
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: There are other hotels, Father.
dialog: Maybe closer to Tahoe? I could
dialog: help you find one, I’m sure you'd
dialog: be happier there.
text: Flynn recovers. Smiles a patronly smile. Looks at Miles’
dialog: name tag.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: “Miles,” is it? If this is not a
dialog: place for a priest, Miles, then
dialog: this is exactly where the Lord
dialog: wants me.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Well, the Lord don’t want you in
dialog: The Honeymoon Suite, I promise you
dialog: that much. Miles, those is my
dialog: accoutrements there, and I stake my
dialog: claim as such. But you can go
dialog: ahead and check them in first for
dialog: all I care.
text: (looks in mirror, rubs
dialog: chin)
dialog: Any luck I'll have a full Jeb
dialog: Stuart by the time we’re done.
text: Miles looks back and forth between Laramie and Flynn. He
text: continues to seem genuinely anxious.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 13.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: It’s all right, son.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Go ahead, boy. Give ‘em the spiel.
dialog: “The El Royale...”
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: The El Royale is a bi-state
dialog: establishment. You have the option
dialog: to stay in either the great state
dialog: of California OR the great state of
dialog: Nevada. Which would you prefer?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: What’s the difference?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Between California and Nevada?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
text: Between the rooms.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Well, for starters, rooms in
dialog: California cost a dollar more.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: (whistles)
dialog: Shoot. Really. When that happen?
dialog: What makes ‘em a dollar better?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: They're in California.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: And that’s worth a dollar?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Some people think so.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: You got a number for those people?
dialog: ‘Cause I got a vacuum they might be
dialog: interested in. Speaking of which!
dialog: Who’s your Head of Hospitality
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Currently that is also me.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 14.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: (grimaces)
dialog: Well. Then let’s worry about that
dialog: later then.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: May I see a map of the hotel?
text: Miles nods. He pulls out A MAP. From above, the El Royale
text: looks like an upside-down “U” with the parking lot in the
text: middle. As Father Flynn looks it over --
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Only the main lodge is available in
dialog: the off-season.
dialog: (then)
dialog: You can still use the California
dialog: amenities if you choose to stay in
dialog: Nevada.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: (chuffs)
dialog: What exactly is a “California
dialog: amenity?”
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: For instance, we are not allowed to
dialog: sell liquor in Nevada.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Lost that when you lost your
dialog: gamblin’ license? So, you’re
dialog: saying, if we want to drink, we
dialog: gotta do it on this side of the
dialog: room?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: That’s correct, sir. Also, coffee
dialog: is twenty-five cents a cup.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Let me guess, you’re also the
dialog: bartender.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: That’s correct, sir.
text: Laramie rolls his eyes. Removes a quarter from his pocket.
text: Slaps it on the desk next to Flynn, who seems genuinely
text: rattled by the map.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 15.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 4
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Feel free to flip that if you need
dialog: to make a decision, Father.
dialog: Starting to cost me money waitin’
dialog: around here.
text: The quiet of the lobby is suddenly disturbed by the ROAR of
text: an engine from outside. All four people turn towards the
text: windows to see a GREEN DODGE CHARGER scream into the lot.
text: Tires SQUEAL as the Charger screeches to a stop.
text: Flynn turns his attention back to the map. Shakes his head.
text: Picks up Laramie’s quarter and flips it. Heads. Shrugs.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I‘1l take Room Four.
text: Miles looks away from the window. Gets a key from the wall
text: behind him.
text: Laramie moves closer to the window for a better look. IN THE
text: CAR: we can make out A WOMAN in the driver’s seat. She seems
text: to be watching the road behind her intently.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I‘1l need one night in advance.
dialog: Eight dollars. And twenty-five
dialog: cents for the coffee. Please sign
dialog: the ledger.
text: There’s a large leather ledger on the desk. Flynn takes out
text: $8.25 and puts it on the counter. Picks up the fountain pen.
scene_heading: CLOSE AS HE SIGNS: Father Daniel Flynn.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: Who’s next?
text: Laramie is still interested in the car outside. He gestures
text: to Darlene. Go ahead. She steps forward.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I'd like a room in Nevada, please.
text: Miles nods. Grabs a key. Slaps it on the desk.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Room Five.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 16.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5) 4
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: (then)
dialog: Is there another room available,
dialog: possibly? Further away. Maybe at
dialog: the end?
text: OUTSIDE: the car door slams. The WOMAN starts walking
text: towards the lodge. She’s in a hurry.
text: Laramie turns his attention back to the desk.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: These rooms have not been serviced
dialog: and are unsuitable.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: He does the housekeeping, remember.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: There are rooms in California
dialog: available, ma’am.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: (losing patience)
dialog: She doesn’t want to be near the
dialog: priest.
text: Flynn, who was collecting his belongings and moving to exit,
text: stops in his tracks. I’m sorry?
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Flynn)
dialog: Like we don’t see her walkin’ in
text: here with her own bedrolls under
text: her arms.
dialog: (to Darlene)
dialog: Don’t worry, darlin’, we ain’t here
dialog: to judge. Father here can even
dialog: teach you ‘bout Mary Magdalene and
dialog: forgiveness and what not.
text: Darlene’s eyes flash with embarrassment and anger.
text: Ring-ring. Right then, the woman from outside walks into the 5
dialog: El Royale.
text: She's in her late twenties. Looks to be a card-carrying
text: member of the flower generation. She’s trying her best not
text: to look distressed. And failing.
text: This is EMILY SUMMERSPRING.
text: Emily stops in her tracks, not expecting to find this many
dialog: people in the lobby. What did I just walk into?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 17.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Darlene turns her attention back to Miles, eager to get out
text: of there. She takes a small coin purse from her jacket and
text: counts out eight one-dollar bills.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Room Five will be fine.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Please sign the ledger. And it’s
dialog: twenty-five cents for the coffee.
text: Darlene’s eyes instinctively look to Laramie. He’s not
text: making eye contact.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Okay. Of course.
text: As she starts to reach for her coin purse. Clack. A hand
text: puts a quarter on the desk. Darlene sees it belongs to
text: Flynn. He nods. It’s on me. Darlene nods back. Thank you.
text: She grabs the pen.
text: CLOSE ON THE LEDGER as she writes: Darlene Sweet.
text: She grabs her bags.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Can I give you a hand to your room?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No.
text: She stops herself, realizing this man is not the one who
dialog: deserves her anger.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: Sorry, Father. That’s kind of you.
dialog: But I can manage from here.
text: Ring. Laramie makes a show of holding the door for her.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: (tips hat)
dialog: Ma’am.
text: Flynn waits a beat. Gathers his valise. Moves to leave.
text: Nods to Emily as he passes.
speaker_heading: FLYNN
text: Afternoon.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 18.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 5
text: She gives him a curt nod. Ring. Flynn exits.
text: And then there were three. Miles looks to both of them.
text: Who's next? Laramie just shakes his head. Throws up his
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Please. Be my fuckin’ guest.
dialog: (yells to window)
dialog: Sorry, Father.
text: Emily shrugs. Fine. I'll go. Steps forward.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I need a room.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: The El Royale is a bi-state
dialog: establishment. You have the option
dialog: to choose a room in either --
text: She grabs the map from the desk. Studies it. Taps it.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I‘1ll take that one.
text: Miles looks down at her choice. His shoulders slump just
text: slightly. His weary eyes look back to Laramie.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Don’t fuckin’ tell me.
text: Emily removes a large wad of cash from her jeans.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I‘1l take Room One.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: You can’t have Room One.
text: Emily turns and stares at him. Defiant. Why not?
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you see my fortnighter right
dialog: there at your feet? Is this really
dialog: happening?
dialog: (to Miles)
dialog: Am I really about to explain the
dialog: concept of a free market claim
dialog: stake to the goddamn hippie?
text: Emily just stares at him with cold eyes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 19.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
text: Then she relents. Turns back to the map.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Give me something along this wall.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: The available rooms on that wall
dialog: have yet to be cleaned.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I don’t give a shit. How much?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Eight dollars.
text: She peels off eight dollars. He puts a key on the desk.
text: Room Seven. She reaches for it. He slides it away.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: Please sign the ledger.
text: Emily stares at him. Really? He stares back. Yes.
text: She grabs the pen. Scrawls something fast. Grabs the key.
text: Heads towards the door. Ring.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: You have yourself a pleasant day,
dialog: now.
text: Laramie steps forward. Finally. He grabs the pen. Looks
text: down at the ledger. Sees Emily’s signature.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Nice.
text: CLOSE ON THE LEDGER: Fuck You.
text: Laramie signs his name at the bottom of the page.
text: CLOSE ON THE LEDGER as he writes with flourish: Laramie
dialog: Seymour Sullivan.
text: CLOSE ON LARAMIE as he looks up at Miles and smiles.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I‘1l take Room One.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: TITLE: Room One
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 20.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM ONE - DAY
text: We hear the sound of a key jangling. Click. Laramie enters,
text: hits the lights. He carries his accoutrements into the room.
text: Takes off his hat and jacket. Folds the jacket carefully and
text: lays it over the back of a chair. Rolls up his white shirt
text: sleeves. Studies the room.
text: The Honeymoon Suite is on the California side of the border,
text: and thus decorated in warm orange hues. It would never be
text: described as luxurious by any means, but it does have a
text: notable king bed on a raised platform and a jacuzzi tub in
dialog: the floor.
text: CLOSE SHOTS: locks flip. A suitcase swings open, revealing:
text: neatly folded clothes. Everything feels regimented. A hand
dialog: removes A DOPP KIT.
text: CLOSE SHOTS: items are placed along a sink. A toothbrush. A
text: soap case. A small bottle of shampoo. A hair tonic. All
text: meticulously ordered just so.
text: CLOSE SHOTS: locks flip. The trunk swings open, revealing:
text: the Calhoun Electrovax. The vacuum is removed. Click. A
text: false bottom is removed from the trunk. A BLACK BRIEFCASE is
text: removed and placed on the bed. The briefcase swings open,
text: revealing an array of SMALL TOOLS.
text: CLOSE SHOTS: a pair of glasses are removed from a case.
text: Laramie sits on the bed. In his shirtsleeves and wireframed
text: glasses now, he looks a far cry from the seersucker
dialog: southerner we met moments ago.
text: He removes a pair of pliers and a screwdriver from the case.
text: He thinks of something. He checks his watch. Does a small
text: double take. Picks up the phone and dials it. Listens.
dialog: Then.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE
dialog: Hi, my love. I know, I know...
dialog: check-in took a little longer than
dialog: I expected...
dialog: And as Laramie talks, we may notice that his thick
text: Mississippi accent is now GONE.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Is she still up?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 21.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 6
text: While Laramie waits, he takes the screwdriver and begins to
text: unscrew the baseplate of the phone receiver. He works
text: quickly, with clinical precision.
speaker_heading: LARAMIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi rabbit! I know, I’m sorry. I
dialog: got delayed. Yes, the clock is
dialog: right. Daddy's wrong.
text: And between the accent, the wife, the child, and the toolkit,
dialog: it should obvious that this man has not been honest about who
dialog: he is. In fact, we should probably start calling him by his
dialog: real name. This is not Laramie Seymour Sullivan...
text: This is DWIGHT BROADBECK.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
dialog: But I got you before you went down.
dialog: Ready? Of course. I’m on my
dialog: knees.
text: Dwight pulls off the baseplate, flips the housing over.
text: Looks under the receiver...
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: “Now I lay me down to sleep, pray
dialog: the Lord my soul to keep...”
text: Dwight removes a SMALL BLACK MICROPHONE from the receiver.
text: Holds it up to the light. Nods, pleased. He sets it down on
text: the night stand.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: “And if I should die before I wake,
dialog: I pray the Lord --”
dialog: (listens)
dialog: What do you mean we’re not saying
dialog: that anymore?
dialog: (listens)
dialog: How do you even know what “morbid”
dialog: means -- what does Mommy want us to
dialog: say?
text: Dwight begins to reassemble the phone.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay. “When I wake in the morning
dialog: light --" Okay, okay, from the
dialog: beginning...
text: Dwight frowns. Something’s WRONG. He holds the receiver up
text: to the light to get a better look. Grabs his pliers.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 22.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: “Now I lay me down to sleep, pray
dialog: the Lord my soul to keep. And when
dialog: I wake in the morning light...”
text: Dwight removes something else from the phone with the pliers.
text: Holds it up to the light.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: “Teach me to do what’s right.”
text: It’s another microphone.
text: This one’s different than the other. Smaller. Tan in color.
text: Dwight stares at it, confused. Clearly troubled.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: Amen.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I gotta go, Rabbit. Tell Mommy I
dialog: love her, okay?
dialog: (listens)
dialog: A couple days. I love you.
text: He hangs up. Places the tan bug on the night stand next to
text: the black bug. Stares at the two different microphones.
text: His eyes narrow. He looks to the rest of the room.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Dwight stands on the armchair. Unscrews the wall sconce.
text: Reaches behind the light with a pair of pliers.
text: CLOSE SHOT: an identical black bug is placed beside the
dialog: first.
text: Dwight pulls the light fixture from the wall. Frowns.
text: CLOSE SHOT: an identical tan bug is placed beside the first.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Dwight’s in the bathroom now. Covered in sweat. Unscrews
text: the light. Frowns.
text: CLOSE SHOT: Four black bugs are now on the night stand.
text: Dwight’s hand places a fourth tan bug in the row beneath it.
text: And then a fifth tan bug.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 23.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 6
text: Dwight stands in the center of the room. Arms folded.
text: Staring at the night stand covered in surveillance bugs.
text: Deep in thought.
text: He shakes his head. None of this makes sense. He turns.
text: Something catches his attention. And the hair stands up on
text: the back of Dwight’s neck. We follow his gaze...
text: To the large MIRROR mounted on the back wall.
text: In the reflection, he can see a full view of the bed in the
text: center of the room.
text: Dwight stares at the mirror. Thinks.
scene_heading: EXT. EL ROYALE - DUSK
text: CLOSE: A brown shoe steps carefully through the pine twigs.
text: A second shoe steps directly in front of it, placing heel in
text: front of toe.
text: Dwight, still in shirtsleeves and glasses, walks carefully
text: along the east edge of the El Royale. Heel-to-toe. Heel-to-
text: toe. Heel-to-toe.
text: He's measuring the hotel.
text: Dwight reaches the corner. Folds his arms. Stares at the
dialog: hotel. Thinks.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - DUSK
text: Ring-ring. Dwight steps into the lobby. Looks the place
text: over. It’s empty. The black and white television is still
text: on, casting flickering pale light all around the room.
text: ON THE TELEVISION: a SPECIAL NEWS REPORT breaks into the
text: Nixon coverage. We see shots of police cars outside a large
text: mansion. News logo reads: “Malibu Beach Massacre.”
text: Dwight opens the front desk drawer. Sees the room keys.
text: Spots THE MASTER. He takes it.
text: Dwight unlocks the door marked “Employees Only.” He eases
text: the door open...
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY
text: Dwight steps into the narrow hallway. We can hear music
text: coming from somewhere. “Bend Me Shape Me” by The American
text: Breed. Dwight surveys. At the far end of the hallway,
text: there’s a HEAVY METAL DOOR.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 10
dialog: 11
dialog: 12
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 24.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 9
text: Closer to Dwight, there’s another door with the words
scene_heading: “MAINTENANCE CLOSET.”
dialog: “Bend me shape me anyway you want me..."
scene_heading: INT. MAINTENANCE CLOSET 10
text: Dwight eases the door open, looks into the room. His face
dialog: falls. Reverse to reveal --
text: A cramped closet. A cot. A hot plate. A transistor radio.
text: And Miles. Passed out cold. Slumped against the wall. A
text: bent spoon on the floor beside him. A syringe still hanging
text: from his bloodied arm.
dialog: “As long as you love me, it's all right..."
text: Dwight closes the door.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY 11
text: Dwight approaches the HEAVY GRAY DOOR at the end of the
text: hallway. Tries the handle. It’s LOCKED. He tries THE
text: MASTER KEY. It doesn’t work.
text: Dwight reaches into his pocket. Pulls out a case of
text: LOCKPICKS. Drops to his knees. Works the lock.
dialog: Click.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - WEST 12
text: Dwight steps into a dimly-lit corridor. Shuts the door
text: behind him. Music stops. The world goes silent.
text: Dwight steps carefully down the corridor. At the end of the
text: corridor, the corridor branches. West or East. Dwight
text: chooses West. Careful not to make a sound. Rounds the
dialog: corner...
text: And finds the mirror. Or, rather, the OBSERVATION WINDOW. A
text: perfectly framed rectangle looking into a hotel room.
dialog: Specifically...
text: His hotel room.
text: He stares at Room One. Arms folded. Thinks. Looks down at
text: the feet. Takes note of THREE SCUFF MARKS on the floor.
dialog: 13
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 25.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - EAST 13
text: Dwight enters the East Corridor. Looking for something.
text: There. Way down at the other end of the hall. It looks
dialog: like...
text: A 16MM CAMERA. Mounted on a tripod.
dialog: [Note: from this point forward, this entire scene will be
scene_heading: done _in ONE CONTINUOUS TAKE. ]
dialog: 
text: Dwight starts walking down the hall. Passes ANOTHER
text: OBSERVATION WINDOW. The room’s dark. Dwight squints.
text: Seems empty. Dwight keeps moving. We track with him. Watch
text: him STOP SHORT when he gets to the next window.
dialog: Room Four.
text: As Dwight stares, we angle around to reveal: FATHER DANIEL
text: FLYNN. Unaware that he’s being watched, Father Flynn's busy
text: shoving his twin bed up against the wall. He reaches into
text: his valise, pulls out what looks like A CROWBAR and A HAMMER.
text: He goes to the corner of the room...
text: And starts yanking the carpet free of the tacks.
text: Dwight stares. The corridor eerily silent as the priest
text: works. Father Flynn yanks an entire swath of the carpet
text: free, exposing the old wood boards underneath.
text: Flynn takes the crowbar... and starts hammering it into the
text: floorboards.
text: Dwight can’t believe what he’s seeing. What the hell is this
dialog: old priest doing?
text: Dwight watches in silence for a second. Then turns his
text: attention back towards THAT CAMERA. Keeps moving. But stops
text: in his tracks yet again when he passes...
dialog: Room Five.
text: Darlene Sweet’s room. And, yes, there she is...
text: Also doing something strange.
text: She's standing on her dresser, trying to hang what looks like
text: a large swath of fabric on her west wall. She has thumbtacks
text: in her mouth, she uses them to secure the fabric in place.
text: She hops off the dresser. Grabs another roll. Goes back to
text: work hanging it on the wall.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 13
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 26.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 13
text: And she unrolls it, Dwight realizes this fabric is the
text: “bedding” Darlene was carrying earlier. It’s not bedding at
dialog: all...
text: It’s soundproofing foam.
text: Darlene fastens the last piece in place. Steps back and
text: surveys her handiwork. Her look seems to say: Well, it's not
dialog: great, but it'll do.
text: Darlene reaches into her bag. Removes A METRONOME. Sets it
text: on her table beside her. Sits down. Starts the metronome.
text: The pendulum rod starts to swing back and forth, but we can’t
dialog: hear anything.
text: Darlene closes her eyes. She takes a deep breath.
text: Her lips start to move.
text: It looks like she’s singing.
text: Dwight frowns. Looks down. Notices, there, below the
dialog: window...
text: A SPEAKER. And a SWITCH.
text: Dwight flips the switch. Darlene’s voice fills the corridor.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
text: I try hard to hide, my hurt inside,
dialog: this ol’ heart of mine, always
dialog: keeps me crying...
text: Dwight jumps. The singing is LOUD. He half expects someone
text: else to hear him. Instinctively looks to the corridor.
text: Nobody’s coming. He turns his attention back to Darlene.
dialog: Her rendition of The Isley Brothers’ “This Old Heart of Mine”
text: is haunting. No music. Just HER VOICE and the click of the
text: metronome. Dwight watches. Transfixed.
text: Then, concerned, he walks back to...
dialog: Room Four.
text: And there’s Father Flynn. Standing waist deep in the
text: floorboards of his room. Perfectly still.
text: He’s staring at the wall next to him.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (0.S.) (CONT’D)
dialog: Maybe it's my mistake to show this
dialog: love I feel inside...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 13
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 27.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 13
text: Father Flynn slowly climbs out of his floor. Empty handed.
text: He walks to the wall. Puts his ear up against it. Listens.
text: Dwight walks back down the corridor.
dialog: Room Five.
text: Darlene’s belting it out now. Swaying in time to the music.
text: Clapping.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: ‘But I... I love you. This ol’
dialog: heart... is weak for you.
text: Dwight stares for a moment longer. Then remembers... THAT
text: CAMERA. Starts moving down the hallway.
dialog: Room Six.
text: Empty.
dialog: Room Seven.
text: Also empty. But seems to be inhabited. There’s a bag on the
text: dresser. And ROPE. And A HUNTING KNIFE.
text: Dwight stops. Frowns. And just then...
text: Emily kicks open the door to Room Seven.
dialog: 
text: Dwight jumps. Surprised. Emily hurries into the room.
text: Dragging something heavy. It almost looks like A PERSON.
text: Emily kicks the door shut behind her. Carries her burden
text: RIGHT UP CLOSE to the observation window. Dumps it in A
dialog: CHAIR. It’s a person, all right...
speaker_heading: This is ROSE.
text: She’s unconscious. Looks to be about eighteen years old.
text: Waifish. Half-dressed. She slumps forward, her head hits
text: the mirror. Thump.
text: Dwight instinctively edges backwards.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (0.S.) (CONT’D)
dialog: This ol' heart of mine been broke a
dialog: thousand times, each time you break
dialog: away...
text: Emily stares at the unconscious body in the chair. Breathing
text: hard. She looks scared. She runs her hands though her hair.
text: The look on her face says what do I do next?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 13
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 28.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 13
text: She grabs the knife.
text: She grabs the rope.
text: She starts lashing Rose to the chair.
text: This all happens RIGHT UP CLOSE TO THE WINDOW. Emily cuts
text: the rope, ties Rose to the chair. Steps back. Thinks.
text: Grabs a bandana. Uses it to GAG Rose.
text: Rose never flutters. Out cold.
text: Dwight watches. Stunned. Can’t believe what he’s watching.
text: He tells himself to stay on task.
dialog: Keeps walking.
dialog: Room Eight.
text: End of the line. Empty. But the 16 MM Camera is there.
text: Mounted on the tripod. Dwight studies the camera. Opens the
text: case. It’s empty.
dialog: No film.
text: Dwight turns. Looks back down the hall from where he came.
text: Thinks. Then. Starts walking back.
dialog: Room Seven.
text: There’s Rose. Unconscious and bound. Right up close to the
text: glass. Dwight stops. Stares at her. Gets close to her.
text: Puts his hand on the window.
dialog: Keep moving, Dwight.
text: He starts back down the hall. Moving faster.
dialog: Room Five.
text: There’s Darlene. On her feet now. Swaying and clapping and
dialog: dancing.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: You_got me never knowing if I'm
dialog: coming or going but --
text: Click. Dwight flips the speaker. The corridor goes SILENT.
text: We see Darlene still singing. Dwight doesn’t break stride.
dialog: Room Four.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 29.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 13
text: Dwight passes. Exits frame. We HOLD on the observation
dialog: window.
text: There’s Father Flynn. He’s taken a chair and placed it
text: against the wall he shares with Darlene’s room.
text: He sits with the back of his head against the wall. Looking
text: to the ceiling. Hands in his lap.
text: He listens to Darlene sing.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. EL ROYALE - PARKING LOT - DUSK 14
dialog: 
text: Dwight exits the lobby doors. Moving fast. With purpose.
text: Doesn’t even look up as the RUMBLE of THUNDER overhead
text: signals an incoming STORM.
text: He’s heading to the other side of the parking lot. Where a
text: lonely PAYPHONE stands beside the gate.
text: He grabs the phone. Dials a number from memory.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
text: Director's office. Case 246673.
text: Dwight waits. RUMBLE. That thunder clap makes Dwight look
text: up. Pat pat pat... The first drops of RAIN start to fall.
dialog: 
text: Dwight straightens up as a voice answers on the other end.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: Director Hoover. This is Special
dialog: Agent Broadbeck. I’m on site at
dialog: the El Royale.
text: CLOSE ON DWIGHT as he stares back at the hotel. Rumble.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: Sir, we have a problem.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
scene_heading: TITLE: Room Five
text: OVER BLACK, we hear the upbeat tempo of The Crystals singing
dialog: “He’s A Rebel...”
speaker_heading: THE CRYSTALS
text: See the way he walks down the
dialog: street...
dialog: 15
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 30.
scene_heading: INT. STARDREAMS STUDIO - FLASHBACK 15
text: A genuine WALL OF SOUND hits us as we find ourselves moving
text: through a SIXTIES RECORDING STUDIO in full swing:
text: There’s the LIVE BAND. The DRUMMER snapping the snare. The
text: PIANIST tapping out that iconic rhythm. The SAX PLAYER
dialog: waiting to come on in...
text: Over there... in the isolation booth... there’s the lead
text: singer. Her name is VESTA SHEARS. She’s in her early
dialog: twenties, and in six months Dick Clark is gonna call her “the
text: future of pop music” on live television.
text: But for now, she’s singing her heart out while THE MEN BEHIND
text: THE GLASS watch.
speaker_heading: VESTA SHEARS
dialog: My he holds his head up high when
text: he goes walking by-y-y-y...
text: We keep moving through the studio... There’s THE THREE BACKUP
text: SINGERS. We’re moving down the line of them as they sing
text: their parts. All wearing bright, colorful dresses. All
text: sporting bouffant hairdos.
scene_heading: BACKUP SINGERS
scene_heading: Qo0000.... OOO00O...
text: And THERE... at the end of the backup trio, is a face we
dialog: recognize...
text: There’s DARLENE SWEET.
text: She looks at least ten years younger, even though the reality
text: is only half that. She’s wearing a green dress. Her eyes
text: are closed. Lost in the music. Smiling bright as she belts
dialog: it out:
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: He's a rebel and he'll never ever
dialog: be... any good...
text: There, watching her through the window, that’s British
text: wunderkind producer BUDDY SUNDAY himself. He’s dressed in
text: his standard Savile Row suit and scarf.
text: His arms are crossed. He’s glowering. Staring right at
text: Darlene. Even though she’s only the third backup singer in
dialog: this whole elaborate affair.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 31.
scene_heading: 15 CONTINUED: 15
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: But he’s not a rebel, no no no,
dialog: he's not a rebel, no no --
speaker_heading: BUDDY (FROM THE BOOTH)
dialog: Cut. Cut. Cut it.
text: They all stop playing. Buddy looks exasperated.
scene_heading: BUDDY (FROM THE BOOTH) (CONT’D)
dialog: Let’s take a break, everyone.
dialog: Darlene... a word.
text: The other singers give Darlene sympathetic looks.
scene_heading: 16 INT. STARDREAMS STUDIOS - DAY 16
text: The musicians file out of the studio as Buddy enters.
text: Darlene watches as he stops Vesta before she leaves. He cups
text: her cheek. Tender. Nurturing. We can barely make out their
dialog: conversation:
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: «--no, no, you were brilliant.
dialog: This is why I have you tracked
dialog: solo.
speaker_heading: VESTA SHEARS
dialog: I can come in stronger...
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I don't want you thinking, pet. I
dialog: want you to stay in this --
text: (waves his hand over her
dialog: body )
dialog: And let me worry about the knobs
dialog: and dials. Okay? Now. Get some
dialog: air. This'll be but a minute.
text: Vesta exits. Leaving Darlene alone with Buddy.
text: Buddy approaches. His eyes go cold as he studies Darlene.
text: Lights a cigarette.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: Where were you last night?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I’m very sorry. I wasn’t feeling
dialog: well. I called your house and
dialog: spoke with your... butler.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 32.
scene_heading: 16 CONTINUED: 16
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Valet.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: He said he would give you the
dialog: message. I figured I should rest.
dialog: So I could be fresh today.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Is that your assessment of your
dialog: performance thus far? “Fresh?”
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I... I don’t know, sir.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: I told you, please, call me Buddy.
dialog: Or Mr. Sunday, if you must. But
dialog: never Mr. Buddy. Impossible not to
dialog: make that sound patronizing.
dialog: Sounds like a chocolate bar. Do
dialog: you know how much my time is worth,
dialog: Darlene?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No, sir. Mr. Sunday.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Columbia Records does.
text: He points to the paperwork he has spread out on the mix
dialog: console.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: Columbia Records currently values
dialog: my time at two hundred dollars an
dialog: hour. Are you currently ina
dialog: position where you can turn down
dialog: two... four... six hundred dollars
dialog: when it is offered to you?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No. I am not.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Six hundred dollars of my time.
dialog: But, instead, you wanted to stay
dialog: fresh. Which, apparently, means
text: flat on the intro and sharp on the
dialog: harmonies.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 16
dialog: 17
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 33.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 16
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I'll get it right, Mr. Sunday. I
dialog: promise.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Do you know how much your time is
dialog: worth, Darlene?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Twelve dollars a session.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: No matter how long the session.
dialog: Which, I suppose, means the longer
dialog: I keep you, the less your time is
dialog: worth.
text: He offers her a cigarette. She politely declines.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (CONT'D)
dialog: You have a choice here, Darlene.
dialog: Give me one year of your time. And
dialog: I can make you a star. You’ll be
dialog: singing lead. You'll be staying at
dialog: The Carlyle. You'll be headlining
dialog: the Riviera. Or. You can continue
dialog: to treat my time as disposable.
dialog: And you can keep scrounging for
dialog: twelve dollar backup gigs until
dialog: they dry up. And in five years
dialog: you'll find yourself shuffling
dialog: between shit hotels, begging for
text: the opening slot on waffle night
dialog: in...
dialog: (shudders )
dialog: Reno.
dialog: (then)
dialog: All right. Darlene? Do we
dialog: understand?
text: CLOSE ON DARLENE as we PRELAP the sound of tick... tick...
dialog: tick... tick...
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROOM FIVE - NIGHT 17
text: SAME FRAMING. Darlene sits in silence as the metronome sways
text: back and forth. Tick... tick... tick... tick...
text: She reaches out, stops the metronome.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 17
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 34.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 17
text: She looks at her luggage. Her suitcase is open. Something
text: catches her eye. She reaches in, pulls out HER SHOW DRESS.
text: Holds it up. She notices the seam is split.
text: Her shoulders slump. This will have to be sewn.
dialog: We get the sense this happens a lot.
text: There’s a KNOCK at the door.
text: Darlene jumps in surprise. Who could that be? She frowns.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (THOUGH DOOR)
dialog: Hello, Darlene? It’s Father Flynn.
dialog: From earlier.
text: She leaves the chain intact. Opens the door. Father Flynn
text: looks at her through the crack. Behind him, the rain is
text: beginning to pour.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I’m so sorry. I was making too
dialog: much noise, wasn’t I?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: No, no. Not at all...
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I have a show tomorrow, and I have
dialog: to rehearse, I tried to make it
dialog: quiet, but...
dialog: (shakes head)
dialog: I’m so sorry. I won’t bother you.
dialog: I'll figure something out.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: It’s no bother. Quite the
dialog: opposite, actually. It’s lovely.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Oh. Thank you.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: What was that you were singing?
dialog: Did you write that?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No. No -- that’s The Isley
dialog: Brothers.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 35.
scene_heading: 17 CONTINUED: (2) 17
text: There’s a rumble of thunder on her line.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Your brothers wrote that?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No.
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: It’s a famous song. It’s been on
dialog: the radio.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Oh.
dialog: (sorry)
dialog: I don’t know much about the radio
dialog: these days.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I’m very sorry, Father. I promise
dialog: I'll keep it --
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I’m gonna go find some food. In
dialog: the lounge. I thought I’d see if
dialog: you want to join? With this place,
dialog: there’s probably strength in
dialog: numbers.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Oh. No, that’s all right.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: You sure? On me. You can consider
dialog: it payment for earlier. For
dialog: letting me listen to you sing.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: That's...
dialog: (softens)
dialog: That's a very nice thing to say.
scene_heading: 18 INT. RECEPTION DESK - NIGHT 18
text: Ding. The lounge is empty. Flynn and Darlene wait for a
text: moment, just to see if anyone arrives.
text: Nobody arrives.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Why even have a bell?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I suspect we’re on our own.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 18
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 36.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 18
text: Flynn reaches into his pocket. Slaps a handful of pocket
text: change on the desk.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I handle food, you handle
dialog: entertainment?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Deal.
text: Darlene takes a couple quarters, glances at the television on
text: the desk.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER
text: Police are still searching for
text: suspects in the grisly murder of a
dialog: Beverly Hills banker and his --
text: Darlene shudders. Click. She turns off the television.
text: Flynn makes his way over to the California side of the room.
text: Notices THE FIREPLACE. Come to think of it, it is a little
dialog: chilly in here...
text: Darlene heads towards the jukebox.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: So you've really never heard of The
dialog: Isley Brothers?
text: Flynn shakes his head as he strikes a match and lights the
dialog: fireplace.
text: Darlene makes her way to THE JUKEBOX: a beautiful Wurlitzer
text: bubbler stocked full of .45s.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: Then we have some work to do.
dialog: (scans)
dialog: How ‘bout The Four Tops? You've
dialog: heard of them.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: (thinks )
dialog: I’m aware there is a group called
dialog: The Four Tops. But that’s about as
dialog: much as I got.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Well. Then. You are in for it.
text: She puts in a quarter. Loads up some selections.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 18
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 37.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 18
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: I almost envy you.
text: “I Got a Feeling” by The Four Tops starts to play. “When
dialog: you're in my arms... oh when you're in my arms..."
text: Darlene sways a bit. Flynn nods. I like it.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: How you making out over there?
text: Flynn is standing in front of a 1950s sandwich vending
text: machine.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I think you’re better at your job
dialog: than I am at mine.
text: Darlene walks over. Sees the vending carousels of food.
text: Sandwiches, fruit, pastries. Everything looks gray.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Oof.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: How lucky are you feeling tonight?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Definitely not eat-that-sandwich-
dialog: lucky.
text: They stare at the machine. Music plays.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Pie?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Pie works.
text: CLOSE SHOTS: Quarters drop. Pie spins.
text: Flynn and Darlene sit in the banquet on the California side
text: of the room. They eat their pie. It’s not bad. They both
text: bop their heads to the music.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: You really never heard this before?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: My knowledge of what’s going on
text: ends somewhere in the fifties.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 18
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 38.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 18
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT'D)
dialog: At a certain point, you get left
dialog: behind. It’s good, though.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: You gotta listen to something.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: We got a pretty good choir at the
dialog: Heart of Mary.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: That’s how I got started. Church
dialog: choir. St. Paul’s Evangelical in
dialog: Decatur. Lutheran. We don’t have
dialog: to get into all that, though.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: You're forgiven.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I’m sure we sing some of the same
dialog: stuff. Let’s see... you got
dialog: “Nearer My God to Thee?”
dialog: “Alleluia! Sing to Jesus?”
text: Flynn nods. Sure.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: How about “Lift Me In Your Arms,
dialog: Hold Me On High?” That was my
dialog: first solo. You got that?
dialog: (sings)
dialog: “Lift me in your arms, hold me on
dialog: high..."
text: Flynn shifts uncomfortably in his seat. He seems almost
dialog: embarrassed.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: To be honest... my memory isn’t
dialog: quite what it was.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Oh. Okay.
text: They sit in awkward silence for a moment.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I think I’m going to have a toddy.
dialog: Can I interest you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 39.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 18
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No, thank you.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: You sure? Nothing like whiskey on
text: a cold night.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I’m fine.
text: Flynn stands up and heads to the bar.
text: CLOSE SHOTS: The record ends. The jukebox switches out the
text: -45. “Bernadette” by The Four Tops starts to play.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: This one. This is a record.
text: She lip syncs along. “Bernadette, people are searchin’ for
dialog: the kind of love that we possessed..."
text: CLOSE SHOTS: Whiskey pours into a glass. A pencil writes
text: “I.0.U. - Whiskey” then makes a slash next to it.
text: Flynn sits back down. Takes a drink of whiskey.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: That's where you're from? Georgia?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Illinois. People make that mistake
dialog: all the time. I’m not quite sure
dialog: why the world needs two Decaturs.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: What are you doing out here?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I live in Bakersfield now. But I
dialog: got a job singing in Reno tomorrow.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: That's exciting.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: That’s not exactly the word I’d use
dialog: to describe a six o’clock shift at
dialog: a keno lounge. But. It’s a job.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Why are you staying here?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 40.
speaker_heading: 18 CONTINUED:
dialog: (5) 18
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: It’s not a good job. Don’t pay
dialog: nothing. If I stayed in Reno
dialog: proper I'd end up in the hole.
dialog: Outskirts are cheaper.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Why do it at all?
text: Darlene hesitates. Sadness in her eyes. She shrugs. I
dialog: don't know...
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Some days... I ask myself that same
dialog: question.
text: She recovers.
dialog: He thinks
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: Singin’s singin’, I guess.
dialog: (then)
dialog: How ‘bout you? How’d you end up at
dialog: the El Royale?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I was up in Oakland. Visiting my
text: brother. Making my way back to
dialog: Indiana. Had to get off the road
text: before dark. My eyes are bad at
dialog: night.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Ritz-Carlton was booked. So here
dialog: we are.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I’m guessing the church pays about
dialog: the same as a Reno keno parlor?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: (nods )
dialog: About that.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: You and your brother close?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: We used to be.
text: about it. Drinks.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: We used to be.
dialog: (then)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 4l.
scene_heading: 18 CONTINUED: (6) 18
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: Can I confess something to you,
dialog: Darlene?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Isn't it supposed to be the other
dialog: way ‘round?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: We can make allowances for that, if
dialog: need be. But...
dialog: (then)
dialog: When I said my memory wasn’t what
dialog: it used to be... I may have been
text: understating things a tad.
dialog: (drinks )
dialog: For the last few years, I’ve been
dialog: having problems with my recall.
dialog: And I don’t think it’s just my age.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I’m certain it’s not just age.
dialog: “But how can they control you, Bernadette? When they cannot
dialog: control themselves, Bernadette?”
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: I wake up some days, and I can’t
dialog: remember who I am. I have moments
dialog: where I lose time... when you saw
dialog: me in the parking lot, today,
dialog: actually. I had completely
dialog: forgotten where I was. What I was
dialog: doing. It’s the strangest feeling.
dialog: You look around and you’re someone
dialog: else. And you don’t know who that
dialog: is.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Father... can I say something?
dialog: (then)
dialog: It sounds like you should see a
dialog: doctor.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I did.
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: He agrees with my assessment that
dialog: it’s not just age.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (oh)
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 18
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 42.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (7) 18
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: (then)
dialog: I'm very sorry.
text: He smiles a kindly smile.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I wasn’t looking for pity. Might
dialog: be for the best, in fact. Some
dialog: parts of my life aren’t worth
dialog: remembering. No, I’m just telling
dialog: you because, if I seem scattered...
dialog: I don’t mean offense.
text: She pats his hand.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: None taken.
text: Flynn finishes his drink. Exhales.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I could use another.
text: He stands up. Makes his way back to the bar. She gets up,
text: too. Carries their dirty plates over to the bar.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: Sure I can’t tempt you? My memory
dialog: may be spotty, but I do recall it’s
dialog: a sin to let an old priest drink
dialog: alone.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Okay, sure. One drink.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Grand.
text: Darlene walks back over to the jukebox.
text: CLOSE SHOTS: Flynn pours two drinks.
text: Flynn glances up at Darlene. Confirms she’s not looking at
text: him. She’s lost in the music.
text: And in this moment, as he stares at Darlene, Father Flynn’s
text: face changes. The kindly old priest disappears. And is
text: replaced by a different man.
text: A much harder man.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 18
dialog: 19
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 43.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (8) 18
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: Perhaps I could even tempt you to
dialog: grace me with a song again later?
text: Father Flynn reaches into his jacket and removes a small
text: glass vial. He pours a clear liquid into Darlene’s drink.
dialog: 
text: Darlene doesn’t see any of this happen.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (back turned)
dialog: Don’t push your luck, Father. But.
dialog: If you happen to find yourself in
dialog: Reno tomorrow... I go on at six.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I'd like that.
text: HOLD ON FLYNN. His face drifts again. As though he’s
text: forgotten, once again, where he is.
dialog: Or.
text: Perhaps he’s having second thoughts about what he’s about to
text: do. He repeats the words to himself, as though he’s
dialog: realizing he really means them:
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: I'd like that.
text: But. Then. His face hardens with resolve. He picks up the
text: glasses. He turns around...
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: But until then --
text: And Darlene bashes him in the face with a wine bottle.
dialog: 
text: CRASH! The bottle SHATTERS. Blood and glass flies
text: everywhere. Father Daniel Flynn goes down in a wet heap.
text: Darlene stares down at his unconscious body. On the jukebox
text: we hear Levi Stubbs scream out:
speaker_heading: LEVI STUBBS (0.S.)
dialog: Bernadette!
text: CUT TO BLACK.
scene_heading: TITLE: 950 Pennsylvania Avenue 19
text: We hear two voices:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 19
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 44,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 19
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (ON TAPE)
dialog: ...in the process of retrieving our
dialog: equipment, I discovered an
dialog: additional wiretap and four
text: microphones.
dialog: TITLE: Washington, D.C.
speaker_heading: TITLE 5th Floor
speaker_heading: HOOVER (ON TAPE)
dialog: Did you recognize the equipment?
dialog: Northeast Corner Suite
speaker_heading: TITLE
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (ON TAPE)
dialog: I do not believe it was ours, sir.
speaker_heading: TITLE Anteroom
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR'S OFFICE - ANTEROOM - NIGHT
text: HELEN GANDY began working for J. Edgar Hoover in 1918. She
dialog: will remain his executive assistant until his death in 1972.
text: Her fingers fly across the typewriter as she transcribes his
text: conversation from earlier.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (ON TAPE) (CONT'D)
dialog: Upon investigation, I discovered
text: the room also had a two-way mirror.
dialog: I found similar rooms in this
text: hotel, along with camera equipment.
speaker_heading: HOOVER (ON TAPE)
dialog: Did you find film?
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (ON TAPE)
dialog: No sir. I called as soon as I
text: discovered the camera.
speaker_heading: HOOVER (ON TAPE)
dialog: No one is to leave there, Agent
dialog: Broadbeck, until you have any and
dialog: all existing surveillance materials
dialog: in your possession.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (ON TAPE)
dialog: Understood, sir.
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 45.
scene_heading: EXT. EL ROYALE - NIGHT 20
text: Rain is pouring down now as Dwight makes his way through the
text: parking lot. He’s watching the front carefully, he does not
dialog: want to be seen.
text: He slides up to Emily’s Mustang, pops the hood. Yanks the
text: DISTRIBUTOR COIL CABLE free. Pockets it in his raincoat.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Dwight repeats the process on Flynn’s Futura.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Dwight repeats the process on Darlene’s Studebaker. He shuts
text: the hood... and stares at the hotel.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (ON TAPE)
dialog: Sir... there’s something else.
dialog: While investigating the observation
dialog: corridor, I witnessed what appeared
text: to be a kidnapping in process. A
text: young woman, Caucasian, holding
text: another woman hostage. Also
dialog: Caucasian.
speaker_heading: HOOVER (ON TAPE)
dialog: The priority is the surveillance
dialog: material, Agent Broadbeck.
dialog: Peripheral matters are not our
dialog: concern.
text: Dwight stands in the rain. Staring at the hotel.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (ON TAPE)
dialog: Sir...
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR'S OFFICE - ANTEROOM - NIGHT 21
dialog: 
text: Tape reels spin as Helen transcribes:
speaker_heading: HOOVER (ON TAPE)
dialog: I am not in the habit of repeating
dialog: myself, Agent Broadbeck, but I will
dialog: do so here to ensure there is no
dialog: confusion....
text: CLOSE ON HELEN’S PAGE as her keys type:
text: “DO NOT INTERFERE.”
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 46.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM ONE - NIGHT 22
text: Dwight stands in front of his mirror. Soaking wet.
text: Breathing hard. Thinking.
text: He glances at himself in the mirror.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
scene_heading: TITLE: Room Seven
text: We HEAR the gentle sound of crashing waves...
scene_heading: EXT. SANTA MONICA - BEACH - DAY 23
text: A solitary trail of BOOT PRINTS leads up the beach to where a
text: young eighteen-year-old girl sits beside a large Army duffel.
dialog: It's Rose.
text: She's wearing cowboy boots and jeans.
text: She sits in the sand with her knees to her chest.
text: She's crying.
text: A BAREFOOT MAN walks along the boot prints. Theirs are the
text: only footprints on the beach.
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN
dialog: Hi.
text: Rose looks up and squints. The man is BACKLIT by the setting
text: California sun. We never get a good look at his face.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN
dialog: I like your boots.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: They’re my Daddy's.
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN
dialog: Don’t look like they’re your
dialog: Daddy’s no more.
dialog: (then)
dialog: That why you're crying?
text: Rose shrugs.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 23
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 47.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 23
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Don’t get a lot of girls down here
dialog: in boots. You come straight from
dialog: the station?
text: Rose shrugs.
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN (CONT’D)
dialog: It’s all right, Boots. You don’t
dialog: got to say nothin’. I/'11 figure it
text: out in three guesses. Watch.
dialog: Tennessee.
text: Rose just looks at him.
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Nah. Too easy. And you ain’t no
dialog: Texas girl, I know that much for
dialog: sure. West Virginia?
dialog: (she shakes her head)
dialog: ‘Course not.
dialog: “Let’s not be insulting, Billy
dialog: Lee.” Nah, I’m just messin’ about
dialog: with you. I knew it the second I
dialog: saw these bootprints in this beach.
dialog: (then)
dialog: You're an Alabama girl.
text: OFF HER LOOK.
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN (CONT’D)
dialog: See. Told you I could do it in
dialog: three.
text: He takes his shirt off, drops it next to her.
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Now you got to come swimming with
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: That wasn’t the deal.
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN
dialog: Sure it was. You knew the game the
dialog: second we started playing.
text: He unbuckles his belt. Slips out of his jeans. Naked. He
text: walks towards the ocean.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 23
dialog: 24
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 48.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 23
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN (CONT’D)
dialog: C'mon, Boots. You got no reason to
dialog: cry no more...
text: CLOSE ON ROSE as she hears:
speaker_heading: BAREFOOT MAN (CONT’D)
dialog: You’re in California now.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROOM SEVEN - NIGHT 24
text: SAME FRAMING. CLOSE ON ROSE. Bound and gagged. Her eyes
text: flutter. She groans.
text: Emily looks up from across the room, where she’s busy
text: stashing her gear under the bed. She hurries over to Rose,
text: kneels down next to her.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Rose? Rosie? It’s okay. You’re
dialog: safe. You’re here with me. It’s
dialog: Em.
text: Rose’s eyes from fear to recognition to anger in a flash.
text: She strains against her bonds.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Rosie. Stop. You’re safe. But I
dialog: can’t untie you. Not ‘til you’re
dialog: right. We gotta get you right.
dialog: (Rose struggles)
dialog: I ‘spect you’re all kinds of mad at
dialog: me. And some extent you're right
dialog: to be. But we’re gonna wait this
dialog: out. We’re gonna wait ‘til you’re
dialog: clear. Then we’ll have it out.
text: She kisses Rose on the forehead. Rose looks at her with
text: malice.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: I had to get you away from him,
dialog: Rosie. He’s all kinds of bad. And
dialog: we gotta get as far away from him
dialog: as possible. You’1l understand.
dialog: We just gotta get you clear... and
dialog: you'll understand.
text: And right then... there’s a KNOCK at the door.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 24
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 49,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 24
text: Both jump in surprise. Emily hops to her feet, grabs her
text: handgun. Locks eyes with Rosie. Holds a finger to her lips.
dialog: Shhhhh...
text: Emily creeps to the door. We hear Dwight’s VOICE outside:
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (0.S.)
dialog: Ma’am? Hello? I’m so sorry to
dialog: bother you.
text: Emily looks through the keyhole. Frowns.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
dialog: Ma’am, it’s Laramie Sullivan. We
dialog: met earlier in the lobby. Would
dialog: you mind opening up the door?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: No, I ain’t gonna do that.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
dialog: Of course. I certainly respect
dialog: that. Good to be cautious. We can
dialog: talk through the door if that suits
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
text: Storm’s wreckin’ hell on the hotel.
dialog: Gettin’ all kinds of complaints
dialog: with people’s power and such. Boy
dialog: up front asked me to help check on
dialog: the women, make sure everyone’s
dialog: safe.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I’m fine.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
dialog: That’s good news.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Listen... if you wouldn’t mind --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Fuck. Off.
text: There’s a long silence.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 24
dialog: 25
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 50.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 24
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
dialog: I’m very sorry to have spooked you,
dialog: ma’am. Have a safe night.
text: We hear footsteps walking away. Rose watches Emily in the
text: mirror. Emily watches through the keyhole. Waits. Turns
text: back towards Rose...
text: And Dwight kicks in the door.
text: Wham! The door hits Emily -- she spins to fire -- but before
text: she can, Dwight BACKHANDS her with the butt of his gun. She
text: goes down hard, between the two beds. Her gun goes
text: skittering across the floor.
text: Dwight puts his foot on Emily’s gun. Kicks it into the
text: bathroom. Keeps his gun trained on Emily.
text: But she’s unconscious. Not moving.
text: Rose CRIES OUT beneath her gag.
text: Dwight hurries over to her.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s okay -- it’s okay. I’m the
dialog: law. It’s all right...
text: He reaches into his pocket. Pulls out a switchblade. Starts
text: cutting free her ropes.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT (CONT'D)
dialog: You’re safe now.
text: ON THE GROUND. Emily groans as blood drips from her temple.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SUMMERSPRING HOUSE - NIGHT 25
text: SAME FRAMING. Eight-year-old EMILY on the ground. Blood
text: dripping from her head.
speaker_heading: MAN’S VOICE
dialog: Don’t touch it. Let it bleed.
text: HER POV: we see THOSE BOOTS from earlier walking away from
text: her across the wood floor.
text: The voice belongs to her father, HUTCH SUMMERSPRING.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 25
dialog: 26
dialog: 27
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 51.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 25
speaker_heading: MAN’S VOICE (CONT’D)
dialog: Next time you want to get smart you
dialog: look down at all that red and you
dialog: think twice.
text: Tears well up in Emily's eyes.
text: HER POV: Hutch walks to the kitchen. Opens the fridge.
speaker_heading: HUTCH
dialog: Where's Rosie?
text: Emily struggles to her feet. Races up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS - NIGHT 26
text: An angelic FOUR-YEAR-OLD is fast asleep in her bed.
speaker_heading: YOUNG EMILY
dialog: Rose? Rosie? Get up. It’s okay.
dialog: Come with me.
text: Downstairs. We hear glass breaking. The man yelling.
text: Emily leads a half-asleep Rose to what looks like a guest
text: room. There’s a four-post bed. She pushes Rose under the
text: bed. Gets on her hands and knees. Looks Rose in the eye.
speaker_heading: YOUNG EMILY (CONT’D)
dialog: Don’t you come out, okay? No
dialog: matter what you hear, you stay put.
speaker_heading: HUTCH (0.S.)
dialog: Where's Rosie?
text: Rose’s POV: looking at her big sister from under the bed.
speaker_heading: YOUNG EMILY
dialog: No matter what you hear, don’t make
text: a sound.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROOM SEVEN - NIGHT 27
text: SAME FRAMING. Looking at Emily from under the bed. She
text: winces in pain. Her eyes struggle to find focus.
text: She locks on something. She’s looking right at us.
text: Emily’s POV: under the bed, a green army duffel. Sticking
dialog: out of it:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 27
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 52.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 27
text: A SHOTGUN.
text: ACROSS THE ROOM -- Dwight finishes untying Rose. Pulls the
text: gag down out of her mouth.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
dialog: You don’t have any reason to be
dialog: scared. You’re safe now.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: Okay, good.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Rosie...
text: They turn as Emily rises.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Get out of the way.
text: Rose steps aside. Revealing Emily.
text: Pointing her shotgun.
text: Right at Dwight.
speaker_heading: BOOM.
text: The shot is DEAFENING. Emily shoots Dwight right in the
text: chest. Both barrels.
text: His chest explodes. Behind him, the mirror SHATTERS.
text: Dwight’s body hits the ground in a bloody mess.
text: Rose stares down at his dead body. Curious. Surprisingly
text: calm for what’s just transpired.
text: Emily struggles to catch her breath. Struggles to process
text: what the fuck just happened. She lowers the shotgun. Looks
text: to the dead body. Looks to her sister.
text: And then she looks to where the mirror used to be.
dialog: 
text: Because there’s not a wall behind that mirror. Instead,
text: there’s A BLACK HOLE.
text: And there seems to be sounds coming from that hole.
text: Somebody is screaming.
text: Emily and Rose look to each other. Look back to the hole.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 53.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 27
text: Camera floats between the two girls... over Dwight’s dead
text: body... towards what’s left of that mirror... and into the
scene_heading: BLACK HOLE.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT 28
text: RAPID FIRE shots bring us back to earlier: The second-hand
text: on the wall clock ticks forward. Darlene grabs a wine bottle
text: from the rack. WHAM! She bashes Dock in the head. He
text: crashes down HARD.
text: CLOSE SHOTS: the mechanical arm chooses another record in the
text: Wurlitzer. Drops it onto the turntable. The needle hits the
text: vinyl. We hear THE CRYSTALS start singing:
speaker_heading: THE CRYSTALS
dialog: Well he walked up to me and he
dialog: asked me if I wanted to dance...
text: Father Daniel Flynn lies unconscious on the California side
text: of the lobby. Broken glass and puddles of booze.
speaker_heading: THE CRYSTALS (CONT’D)
dialog: He looked kind of nice and so I
dialog: said I might take a chance...
text: We hear footsteps. TENNIS SHOES run into frame.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Father? Oh no...
text: It’s Miles. He races to Flynn’s side.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father Flynn -- Father Flynn -- oh
dialog: no no -- wake up -- Father --
text: Flynn groans as Miles pats his face. He gasps. Disoriented.
text: Shoves Miles away. Fear in his eyes. Tries to sit upright.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: Father, don’t try to move --
text: Flynn looks at Miles with dazed eyes.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I’m not your father.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 54.
scene_heading: 28 CONTINUED: 28
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Take it easy. Take it real easy.
dialog: You're hurt. What the heck
dialog: happened?
text: Father Flynn touches the wound on his head. Rubs the blood
text: between his fingers. His eyes drift as he listens.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: What’s this song?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father... do you know where you
dialog: are?
text: Clarity starts to creep into Flynn's eyes.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: That’s what I’m askin’ you. I just
dialog: found you like this. On the floor.
dialog: You got glass in your head.
text: Flynn picks broken glass out of his head.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Where's... where’s...
dialog: (then)
dialog: Was I alone?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Yeah. Why? Was you with somebody?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: (thinks; then)
dialog: No.
text: Flynn gets to his feet. But as he takes a step, his knees
text: get weak. He manages to slide into the banquet.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: Kid... what’s your name again?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Miles.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Miles. I need a drink.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Fix me a drink.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 55.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 28
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I’m not so sure that’s a good idea.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Just one drink. To clear my head.
dialog: I'd do it myself, but...
dialog: (gestures to mess)
dialog: Look what happens.
text: Miles hesitates. Unsure.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: I fell down, Miles. I’m old. Shit
dialog: happens. Get the whiskey.
text: Miles heads towards the bar. Flynn sits in the banquet and
text: listens to the music. He catches a glimpse of himself in the
text: reflections on the wall. Sees the priest collar.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father... I was hoping...
dialog: (pours drink)
dialog: I was hoping I could ask for your
dialog: help. I been gone. I been gone
dialog: from the church for a while now...
text: He hands Flynn a glass of whiskey and a towel.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: But I was devout. My whole life.
dialog: Baptized. Confirmed. Never missed
dialog: a Sunday ‘til I left Indiana.
text: Flynn drinks. Still a little woozy.
speaker_heading: FLYNN
dialog: I was born in Indiana.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Really? No kiddin’. Whereabouts?
text: Flynn doesn’t respond. He takes the towel and dabs his head.
text: Looks at his own blood.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: Father... I was hoping... see...
dialog: (then)
dialog: I got things I need to confess.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Not right now, kid.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 56.
scene_heading: 28 CONTINUED: (3) 28
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Okay, Father. Right. Of course.
dialog: It’s just... I’m penitent, Father,
dialog: I promise. I’m penitent and I’m
dialog: afraid for my soul.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I’ve done horrible things.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: So's everybody. You'll be fine.
text: Flynn finishes the drink. Stands. Takes a few steps. He’s
dialog: got his sea legs back.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: You got a master key to this place?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Did you lock yourself out of your
dialog: room?
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: (nods )
dialog: Like I said, kid, I’m old.
text: CLOSE SHOT: the drawer slides open, revealing the room keys.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Should be right here...
text: But it’s not. There’s an empty hook instead.
text: Miles looks distressed.
scene_heading: 29 INT. MAINTENANCE CLOSET - NIGHT 29
text: Miles rummages through his cramped closet. Looking for the
text: key. He can’t find it. Knows something’s wrong.
text: Flynn watches over Miles’ shoulder. Miles sees Flynn looking
text: at his heroin rig.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father...
text: Flynn shrugs. Does a quick sign of the cross on Miles.
dialog: You're forgiven.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Where’s the key?
text: Miles shakes his head. Walks towards THE CORRIDOR.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 29
dialog: 30
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 57.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 29
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I told you this wasn’t a good
dialog: place, Father.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 30
text: Miles walks round the corner. Flynn follows. Stepping with
dialog: caution. What the fuck is this place?
text: Miles stops in front of the first window. Head down in
text: shame. Flynn steps forward.
dialog: Sees it’s his room.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: You watched me?
text: His eyes flash. He grabs Miles by the throat. Slams him up
text: against the wall. Miles cries out in pain.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT'D)
dialog: What did you see?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I didn’t see nothin’! I didn’t --
dialog: I only watch who they tell me to
dialog: watch.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Who's “they?”
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Management. I get a call, “So-and-
dialog: sos checking in, set up the
dialog: camera.” Hasn’t happened as much
dialog: since the election...
text: Flynn's head whips around. He sees THE CAMERA down at the
text: end of the hall.
text: Flynn lets go of Miles. He starts walking towards the
text: camera. Stops at the next room...
text: Darlene’s room.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: Mostly they just want, you know,
dialog: people... screwin’.
text: It’s empty. No sign of Darlene anywhere. But the sound
text: baffles are still on the walls. Flynn stares at them.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 58.
scene_heading: 30 CONTINUED: 30
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: What do you do with the film?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Develop it in one of the back
dialog: cabins. Mail it to Management.
text: P.O. Box in Pennsylvania.
text: Hold on Flynn. His mind racing. He keeps walking down the
text: hall. Miles follows.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: You ever keep any of the film?
text: Miles doesn’t respond.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT'D)
dialog: Miles.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Last year. The big celebration.
dialog: Man stayed with us... he was known.
dialog: A big deal. You know? Management
dialog: wanted him. They really wanted
dialog: him. But he was kind to me. So I
dialog: told them there wasn’t no woman in
dialog: his room.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: But_you kept the film?
text: Miles doesn’t say anything. Tears start to well in his eyes.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father... this ain’t even what I
dialog: was tryin’ to confess. I done so
dialog: much worse than this...
text: Miles puts his head in his hands.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Miles...?
text: But something catches their attention. Light flickers,
text: shadows move on the wall across from Room Seven.
text: Miles steps forward. And stops right in his tracks.
text: Flynn joins him. And we angle around to reveal:
text: Rose. Bound and gagged. Right up close to the window.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 59.
scene_heading: 30 CONTINUED: (2) 30
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Who is that?! Jesus.
text: Emily crosses from the other side of the room. Squats down
text: next to her. Starts talking. We can’t hear her.
text: Miles flips the intercom switch.
speaker_heading: EMILY (IN ROOM)
dialog: You're safe. But I can’t untie
dialog: you. Not ‘til you're right. We
dialog: gotta get you right...
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: We gotta help her.
dialog: (then)
dialog: We gotta help her, Father.
text: Flynn stares at Emily and Rose. Mind racing. Makes his
text: decision. Grabs Miles. Pushes up so he can’t see in the
dialog: room anymore.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: What did you do with the film?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: (panicked)
dialog: Father, we gotta do something. We
dialog: gotta help her --
text: Flynn speaks with a calm, gentle voice.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: Miles. Listen to me.
dialog: (then)
dialog: The Lord wants you to tell me where
dialog: the film is.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 31 INT. MAINTENANCE CLOSET - NIGHT 31
text: Flynn yanks the mattress off Miles’ cot. Sees the cinder
text: blocks underneath. Lifts one up, revealing a little hiding
dialog: place:
text: Some heroin bindles. A bible.
dialog: And_a_can of 16mm film.
dialog: 32
dialog: 33
dialog: 34
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 60.
scene_heading: INT. OBSERVATION CORRIDOR - NIGHT 32
text: Miles watches in growing horror as Emily stands with her
text: handgun, talking to Dwight through the door:
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Fuck. Off.
speaker_heading: DWIGHT
dialog: I'm very sorry to have spooked you,
dialog: ma'am. Have a safe night.
text: WHAM! Miles jumps as Dwight kicks the door open, BACKHANDS
text: EMILY across the room.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father Flynn!
scene_heading: INT. MAINTENANCE CLOSET - NIGHT 33
text: Flynn has unspooled a length of the 16mm film. He’s holding
text: it up to the light. He turns his head as he hears Miles
text: screaming for him.
scene_heading: INT. OBSERVATION CORRIDOR - NIGHT 34
text: Flynn comes hurrying around the corner, sees a panicked Miles
text: down at the end of the hall.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father Flynn get down here that
text: vacuum man just busted down the
text: door and he beat up that other girl
dialog: and he's got a gun --
text: Flynn races forward.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: Rosie -- get out of the way.
text: We hear the cold metal RACK of the shotgun.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
text: Kid -- GET AWAY FROM THE WINDOW!
text: KA-BOOM! The window EXPLODES in the shotgun blast. Miles
text: disappears in a storm of BUCKSHOT and GLASS.
text: Flynn jumps, slams on the brakes. Watches in horror as Miles
text: hits the ground.
text: HOLD ON FLYNN. Staring at the hole where the window used to
text: be. He looks down at Miles.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 61.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 34
text: And Miles starts to move.
text: His face is a mess of blood and glass and buckshot. But he
text: seems to be alive.
text: He CRIES OUT in pain.
text: HOLD ON FLYNN. Frozen. Not knowing what to do. Miles cries
text: out on the ground.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Ahhbhhh... help me...
text: Flynn takes a step forward. Moving to help him.
text: But then thinks twice.
text: Flynn stops.
text: He starts backing up.
text: He turns and runs.
text: We’re at the far end of the hall. He races past us, rounding
text: the corner. And just as Flynn disappears from view --
text: Emily sticks the shotgun through the hole. Swings it towards
text: us. Scans the corridor. Sees the bloodied boy on the
dialog: ground.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Jesus Fucking Christ!
text: CUT TO BLACK.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT 35
text: CLOSE SHOTS. The mechanical arm chooses a record.
text: “Bernadette” starts to play.
text: TICK! The clock ticks forward.
text: WHAM! Darlene bashes Flynn in the face with the bottle.
text: WHUMP! Flynn hits the ground in a heap.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 36
text: RING-RING. Darlene races out of the lobby, into the
text: rainstorm. Panic on her face. Breathing hard.
text: She scans the parking lot. Think, Darlene...
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 62.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM FIVE - NIGHT 37
text: Darlene grabs her keys from her night stand. Grabs her
text: purse. Looks to the rest of her belongings. No time. Leave
text: them behind. She bolts towards the door.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 38
text: RUMBLE. The rain is a genuine deluge. The crashing sounds
text: of water and thunder drown out all other noise.
text: But Darlene creeps through the darkness nonetheless.
text: Stepping carefully. Keeping an eye on THE LOBBY. She sees
text: NO MOVEMENT through the windows. Okay, good.
dialog: Breathe, Darlene. Breathe.
text: Time to go. She turns to step out of the darkness, into the
dialog: parking lot, when --
speaker_heading: WHUMP.
text: She hears something. A muffled thump in the parking lot.
text: She turns, and sees --
dialog: Dwight.
text: He just shut the hood of Flynn’s Futura. He’s making his way
text: over to the Studebaker.
text: Darlene's car.
text: Darlene stays crouched in the shadows. Watches in growing
dialog: horror. What is this man doing?
text: Dwight pops Darlene’s hood. He searches around in her
text: engine. RIPS something out of it.
text: Then Dwight steps forward. Stares at the hotel.
text: HOLD on Darlene. Staring at this man. Standing motionless
text: in the middle of the storm. It’s unsettling.
text: Dwight walks to his room. Disappears.
text: Darlene waits. Oh god, what did he do? She bolts through
text: the rain to her car. Slips into the driver’s seat. Fumbles
text: with her keys. Hands shaking. C’mon, Darlene. She manages
text: to get the key into the ignition. Turns it...
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 38
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 63.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 38
text: The car’s dead. No. She tries again. Click. And again.
dialog: Click. Nothing.
text: And all the fear and panic that Darlene’s been keeping at
text: bay, it all comes home. She starts pounding at the steering
dialog: wheel... No no no no NO...
dialog: Hold it together, Darlene.
text: She grips the steering wheel tight. What do I do what do I
text: do? She closes her eyes. Tries to keep her voice calm.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Dear Lord, please give me guidance.
dialog: I am here in darkness and I need
dialog: your light.
text: She sees something outside.
text: It’s Dwight again.
text: He’s left his room. He’s heading towards Room Seven.
dialog: Now what?
text: Darlene watches from the covered darkness of her car: Dwight
text: knocks on the door. Dwight seems to be having a conversation
text: with the person inside. Dwight seems to be getting
text: frustrated. Dwight steps away from the door.
text: Dwight pulls HIS GUN out of his coat.
text: Darlene’s eyes go wide as Dwight steps quickly to the door
text: and KICKS IT OPEN. Darlene JUMPS -- oh my god -- as Dwight
text: disappears into the room.
text: Darlene opens her door. Moving on instinct -- through the
text: rain -- staying covered. Trying to get a better look at
text: what's happening inside that room.
text: There's Dwight, cutting Rose free. There's Emily getting to
text: her feet. With a shotgun. Before Darlene can scream --
text: BOOM. Emily shoots Dwight.
text: Darlene claps her hands over her mouth to stifle her scream.
dialog: Oh god NO.
text: Darlene’s POV: Emily and Rose look at each other in shock.
text: Look to the shattered window. Emily steps forward.
text: Cautious. She pokes her head through the hole.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 64.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 38
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Jesus Fucking Christ!
text: The storm around Darlene makes it hard to hear exactly what’s
text: being said in the room. We hear distant screaming. Words
text: come through muffled.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: What is this?
dialog: (then)
dialog: Keep your fucking hands where I can
dialog: see them! What the hell is this?
text: Emily thinks. Looks to Rose.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Rosie. Stay right there.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Okay.
text: Emily takes the shotgun, clears the remaining glass on the
text: edge of the window.
text: She CLIMBS THROUGH the hole, keeping her gun trained on the
text: ground below.
text: Then she disappears.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: I said keep your hands where I can
dialog: see them!
text: HOLD ON DARLENE. Crouched in the pouring rain. Watching
text: these strange horrors unfold:
text: Rose steps forward. Looks through the hole in the window.
text: Huh. A curious child.
text: Then Rose turns away. Surveys the room. Something catches
dialog: her attention...
dialog: The telephone.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM SEVEN - NIGHT 39
text: In the room now. We can hear things much clearer. Emily
text: YELLING. Miles SCREAMING.
speaker_heading: MILES (0.S.) EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: I don't have a gun -- What are you doing? Jesus!
dialog: You shot me in the face --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 39
dialog: 40
dialog: 41
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 65.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 39
text: Rose picks up the phone. Glances back towards THE HOLE. No
text: sign of Emily. She dials a number from memory.
text: Listens. When she hears the voice on the other end, her face
text: LIGHTS UP with happiness. Speaks quietly:
speaker_heading: ROSE (INTO PHONE)
dialog: Hi! It’s me.
dialog: (listens)
dialog: I don’t know. I’m with Em. She
dialog: had me all tied up. I think she
text: shot a cop.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: What is this place?
speaker_heading: ROSE (INTO PHONE)
dialog: We're in a hotel. I don’t know.
dialog: (smiles bright)
dialog: You will? Okay, let me look...
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 40
text: Darlene watches Rose talk on the phone. Can’t quite make out
text: what she’s saying. Sees Rose start to open drawers. Looking
dialog: for something...
scene_heading: INT. ROOM SEVEN - NIGHT 41
text: Rose holds up A MATCHBOOK.
speaker_heading: ROSE (INTO PHONE)
dialog: It says “El Royale.”
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: Rosie -- c'mon --
speaker_heading: ROSE (INTO PHONE)
dialog: I gotta go.
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Okay. See you soon.
text: Rose hangs up. She walks back across the room. Looks down
text: at Dwight’s lifeless body. Huh.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: Get up! MOVE.
text: We hear Miles CRY OUT in pain.
text: Rose hops up on the window. Slips through the hole into the
dialog: darkness.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 41
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 66.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 41
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: What the hell are you doing back
dialog: here?
text: HOLD on the empty room as the sounds of Emily, Miles, and
text: Rose recede.
text: Camera drifts back towards THE FRONT DOOR. Rain and
text: lightning and thunder.
text: Darlene’s head peeks into the room.
text: She steps forward tentatively, eyes on that window, ready to
text: bolt at the first sign of movement.
text: She creeps into the room.
text: Heart pounding. Keep it together, Darlene. Eyes LOCKED on
dialog: that window.
text: She slides up next to Dwight’s dead body. Starts patting his
text: bloodied chest. Where is it? Where is it?
dialog: There.
text: She reaches into his jacket. Eyes still watching that
text: window. Pulls out...
text: The distributor coil cable.
text: Actually, to be precise, she pulls out three distributor coil
text: cables. And they’re all bloodied. And they look like
text: they've been chewed with buckshot.
dialog: 
text: Darlene’s heart falls. Panic takes hold once again. Not
dialog: right now, Darlene.
text: Her eyes glance down to Dwight’s face. His glassy, empty
text: eyes stare up at her.
dialog: Get moving, Darlene.
text: She starts to head back the way she came. But then she
text: stops. Sees something across the room. There. On the
dialog: floor...
text: Dwight’s gun.
text: Darlene grabs it. Bolts from the room.
dialog: 42
dialog: 43
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 67.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 42
text: Darlene pops the hood of her Studebaker. Stares at the
text: engine. Looks at the bloodied cables in her hands.
dialog: What do I do with these?
text: She searches for where they might fit. Her hands shake.
text: It’s dark. She can barely see the engine, let alone discern
dialog: where the cable might go.
text: She makes her best guess. Tries to lock one of the cables in
text: place. She closes the hood.
scene_heading: INT. STUDEBAKER - NIGHT 43
text: Darlene gets in her car. Shuts the door. Her hands fumble
dialog: for her keys. C’mom... c'mon...
text: She puts the key in the ignition. Take a breath. Please.
text: Darlene turns the key.
text: The engine groans. But doesn’t turn over.
text: She grips the steering wheel so tight her knuckles turn
dialog: white.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (closes her eyes)
dialog: Lord...
text: There’s a KNOCK at the passenger’s side window.
text: Darlene CRIES OUT in surprise. She reaches into her coat,
text: pulls out the gun, points it RIGHT AT --
dialog: Father Flynn.
text: He’s at the passenger window. Holding both hands where
dialog: Darlene can see them. Don’t shoot. I mean no harm.
text: He gestures for Darlene to roll down the window.
text: After a moment, she does. Never taking the gun off him.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I just want to talk. Can I get in?
text: Darlene thinks about it for a moment.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I will shoot you in the face.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 43
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 68.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 43
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: I believe you.
text: He doesn’t wait for further invitation. He opens the door.
text: Sits down in the passenger seat slowwwwwwly.
text: He rolls up the window.
text: He wipes the rain from his forehead.
text: He stares at the hotel.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: Well.
dialog: (then)
dialog: We're in a bit of a pickle here.
text: Darlene just stares at him. Tries to keep the gun from
text: shaking as she points it right at him.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m sorry I tried to drug you back
text: there in the lobby.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I wasn’t trying to diddle you or
dialog: nothing like that. I just needed
dialog: to break into your room and I
dialog: didn’t want to hurt you. More than
dialog: need be, I mean.
dialog: (then)
dialog: No hard feelings about bashing me
dialog: in the head, is what I’m saying.
text: Flynn stares at the hotel. Thinks.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: I'm pretty sure those girls just
dialog: killed a cop of some sort.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (nods )
dialog: They did.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN
dialog: You saw it?
text: Darlene nods.
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: That his gun?
text: She nods again. Flynn thinks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 43
dialog: 44
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 69.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 43
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: This is not so good for us.
text: He looks at her. Almost as an afterthought:
speaker_heading: FATHER FLYNN (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m not really a priest.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Yeah.
dialog: (then)
dialog: No shit.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
scene_heading: TITLE: Room Four
text: We HEAR what sounds like sleigh bells jingling. And is that
text: some sort of Christmas music in the distance?
scene_heading: INT./EXT. ARMORED CAR - DAY 44
text: SAME FRAMING. CLOSE ON the man we know as Father Flynn. At
dialog: least, we think that’s him... it’s hard to know for sure
text: beneath that BLACK HAT and MASK he’s wearing. We should
dialog: probably start calling this man by his real name now:
dialog: 
text: This is DOCK O’KELLY.
text: We start slowly tracking back... ROTATING as we do so... Dock
text: seems to be frantically shoving CASH into a familiar RED BAG.
text: Cash seems to flip and flutter in the air around us... we
text: keep pulling back... snowflakes drift in among the cash...
text: Dock turns, climbs towards us, and we reveal we are in:
text: 1958. Small town, main street U.S.A. Christmas time.
text: Festive lights frame the folksy storefronts. Decorations and
text: snowdrifts line the streets. And right in the middle of it
dialog: all...
text: A horrible car accident. AN ARMORED CAR has been flipped
text: completely upside down by a black Chevy truck.
text: It’s chaos. Smoke billows from the cars. Cash and snow
text: drift through the air. Dock climbs out of the back of the
text: car, moving fast, shotgun in one hand, red bag in the other.
text: He looks to LARSEN ROGERS, who is similarly dressed in a
text: suit, hat, and mask. Larsen is crouched down, looking at the
text: TWO UNCONSCIOUS GUARDS near the wreckage.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 70.
scene_heading: 44 CONTINUED: 44
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Are they dead?
speaker_heading: LARSEN
dialog: They’11 live.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: (angry)
dialog: Where'd you learn to drive?
speaker_heading: LARSEN
text: They swerved.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: They tend to do that when you’re
dialog: box sweepin’ ‘em --
speaker_heading: LARSEN
dialog: “Stay on his fender.” That’s what
dialog: you said. “I want ‘em scared.”
speaker_heading: DOCK
text: Scared. Not... comatose.
speaker_heading: LARSEN
dialog: (sheepish)
dialog: Comas are scary.
text: SCRREECH. A ROARING BUICK tears around the corner, expertly
text: swerving to a stop in the middle of the action.
text: The third member of the team hops out of the car...
scene_heading: FELIX O’KELLY.
dialog: Dock's brother.
text: The same man we saw at the beginning of the film.
dialog: 
text: He surveys the wreckage. Steps towards Larsen. Angry.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Are they dead?
speaker_heading: LARSEN
dialog: Okay...
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Where'd you learn to drive?
speaker_heading: LARSEN
dialog: We've been over this --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 44
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 71.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 44
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Shut _your fucking mouth. Get the
dialog: money. Not one more word.
text: Larsen begrudgingly starts scooping up what loose money he
text: can from the ground.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Felix)
dialog: They ain’t dead.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Praise the Lord. We can’t leave
dialog: this here...
text: Felix hops behind the wheel of the wrecked Chevy. Turns it
text: over. The engine groans and rumbles... but it starts. Felix
text: slams it into reverse, pulling it free from the armored car.
text: He backs up a few feet, right next to Dock. The two men
text: listen to the clanking engine.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Will it run?
text: Felix just shrugs. Who the fuck knows? They stare at Larsen
text: as he scoops up the money.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Think the kid’s bent or just
dialog: stupid?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I’m going with stupid but I’m
dialog: willing to be persuaded.
text: ACROSS THE WAY: ONLOOKERS peek out from a CHRISTMAS TREE LOT.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: Hang on, I better scatter these
dialog: kids...
text: Dock steps towards the Christmas trees. He RACKS the shotgun
text: and yells at two children:
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: This’1l cut_your little legs off at
dialog: the fucking kneecaps!
text: The kids run. Dock turns back to Felix.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: You're starting to sound like Mom.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 44
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 72.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 44
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Don't start.
text: In the distance, we HEAR SIRENS.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: What do we do, Dock?
text: HOLD ON DOCK. Standing in the middle of this chaos.
text: Thinking. Then.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Get out of the car, Felix.
text: Dock opens the door. Hands Felix the RED BAG.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: Take the kid. Ditch the Buick at
text: Rocklin and split up. I’11 lead
dialog: them south and burn this once I’m
text: clear.
dialog: (then)
dialog: We'll meet at the El Royale.
text: There’s a moment as these two brothers stand in the center of
text: the storm. Snow drifts down as they lock eyes.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: Felix...
text: Dock glances at Larsen.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: Play it close.
text: Felix nods. Dock slides behind the wheel of the truck.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: You sure about this?
text: CLOSE ON DOCK. As he stares out at the CHAOS.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I got it under control.
speaker_heading: VOICE (PRE-LAP)
dialog: Please rise...
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 73.
scene_heading: INT. COURTROOM - DAY 45
text: SAME FRAMING. CLOSE ON DOCK. Now cleaned up in a cheap suit
text: and tie as he stands up next to his lawyer and awaits his
dialog: sentence.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Donald O’Kelly. On the charges of
dialog: grand larceny and conspiracy to
dialog: commit larceny, I hereby sentence
dialog: you to fifteen years in the federal
dialog: penitentiary.
text: HOLD ON DOCK as he hears his sentence.
text: Pre-lap the sounds of A MAN SCREAMING...
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PRISON CELL - NIGHT 46
text: SAME FRAMING. Though now Dock’s lying on his back. And he
text: looks a decade older. His wild, terrified eyes look up at us
text: as he thrashes about in his bunk.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Where am I where am I where am I?
text: His CELLMATE is a large, tattooed man named SAMMY WILDS. He
text: tries to roust Dock from what seems like a waking nightmare.
speaker_heading: SAMMY
dialog: Dock, Dock -- stop -- hey -- HEY --
dialog: You're okay --
text: Dock sits up. Stares at his cramped cell. Confused.
text: Terrified. Gasping for air. A frightened child.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Where am I?
speaker_heading: SAMMY
dialog: Same place you’ve been for the last
dialog: ten fucking years. Cell Block
dialog: Four. Just breathe... you’re
dialog: okay...
text: Sammy’s voice seems to be calming Dock down. We get the
dialog: sense this happens a lot.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 46
dialog: 47
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 74.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 46
speaker_heading: SAMMY (CONT'D)
dialog: (exhales)
dialog: Jesus, Dock. We gotta do something
dialog: about this.
text: HOLD ON DOCK as he stares at his cell. Trying to remember
dialog: who he is.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PRISON HOSPITAL - DAY 47
text: SAME FRAMING. CLOSE ON AN X-RAY of a skull.
text: DR. WILLIAM LAURENCE studies the X-Ray. Takes a drag off his
dialog: cigarette.
text: Dock sits in a prison hospital bed. He’s wearing his prison
text: clothes. One hand is handcuffed to the bed rail. He’s gota
text: black eye and a bandaged forehead.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: What do you think?
scene_heading: DR. LAURENCE
dialog: I think you should stop fighting
dialog: with the niggers, for starters.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Mexicans. This time. And I didn’t
dialog: do nothing.
scene_heading: DR. LAURENCE
dialog: I'd hate to see what it looks like
dialog: when you do something. They tell
dialog: me that boy down the hall may not
dialog: walk again.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: They jumped me.
scene_heading: DR. LAURENCE
dialog: Sure.
text: Dr. Laurence stares at the chart. Lost in thought.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: It’s not the fighting.
text: Dr. Laurence takes a drag off his cigarette. Grave.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 47
dialog: 48
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 75.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 47
scene_heading: DR. LAURENCE
dialog: (agrees)
dialog: It’s not the fighting.
text: He wheels himself closer to Dock.
speaker_heading: DR. LAURENCE (CONT’D)
dialog: Tell me about your family. Any
dialog: history of dementia? Alzheimer’s?
text: Dock nods.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: My mother.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Her father.
text: Dr. Laurence offers Dock one of his cigarettes. Dock takes
text: it. Dr. Laurence lights it for him.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: How long do I got?
text: Dr. Laurence thinks. Smokes.
scene_heading: DR. LAURENCE
dialog: When are you up for parole?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Six months.
scene_heading: DR. LAURENCE
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: You should make it ‘til then.
speaker_heading: OFF DOCK --
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. STUDEBAKER - NIGHT 48
text: SAME FRAMING. Dock sits in the passenger seat. Stares out
text: at the rain. Darlene keeps the gun on him.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Ten years ago, my brother Felix and
dialog: I robbed an armored car in
dialog: Sacramento. Job went bad. I think
dialog: we got burned by our crew. I went
dialog: to prison, Felix got killed at the
dialog: meetup. Which was here. At the El
dialog: Royale. We had a plan, case things
dialog: went south.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 76.
scene_heading: 48 CONTINUED: 48
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
text: Bury the money in the floor of the
text: room. When they found his body,
dialog: they never made no mention of the
dialog: money.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I couldn’t remember what room we
text: said. Either four or five. It was
dialog: true what I said back there about
dialog: my mind not being what it was. I
dialog: guessed wrong. So. I think
dialog: there’s a whole mess of money
dialog: buried in your room.
dialog: (then)
dialog: And I need your help to get it.
text: They sit in silence for a bit. The rain pours down.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: And you expect me to believe all
dialog: that.
text: Dock considers her question.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Um. Well. It’s the truth. So
dialog: there’s that. But... no. I get
dialog: it.
dialog: (frowns )
dialog: How’d you know I wasn’t on the up-
dialog: and-up in the first place?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: You spend your life gettin’ shook,
dialog: you learn to spot a shaker.
text: Dock nods. Likes the way that sounds.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Is that from a song?
text: Darlene shakes her head.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: What if you were wrong? You’d have
dialog: bashed a priest in the face for no
dialog: reason.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I'd find a way to forgive myself.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 77.
scene_heading: 48 CONTINUED: (2) 48
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: (thinks )
dialog: I suppose I’d do the same if I was
dialog: in your situation.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: And now? What would you do if you
dialog: was me?
text: Dock thinks about it.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I guess my first instinct would be
dialog: to shoot this old man in the face
text: and clear out of Dodge.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: You're dead right so far.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: But then I'd think that through.
dialog: The cars don’t work, and this storm
dialog: isn’t letting up. How far am I
dialog: getting on foot tonight? People
dialog: are gonna come looking for that
dialog: dead cop soon enough. And I sure
dialog: don’t want to be the black woman in
text: the woods with the gun when they
dialog: do.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So. Then I start thinking about my
dialog: other options. I suppose I could
dialog: walk back in there and take my
dialog: chances with those kids...
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I promise you I ain’t thinking
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Which leads me to option three.
dialog: Maybe I hear this old man out.
text: Maybe he’s telling the truth.
dialog: Maybe he can help me.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Maybe there really is money in my
dialog: room. And maybe this old man...
dialog: maybe he doesn’t have a lot of time
dialog: left. And he’s fine with fifty
dialog: percent of whatever we find in that
dialog: floor.
text: HOLD ON DARLENE. Staring at Dock.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 48
dialog: 49
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 78.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 48
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: If I’m wrong, I can still shoot him
dialog: later. But if I’m right, I just
dialog: might survive this night.
dialog: (then)
dialog: If I’m right... I can walk out of
dialog: here with enough money to change my
dialog: life forever.
text: Darlene stares at Dock O'Kelly. Seeing him for who he is.
text: Seeing what he’s offering.
dialog: She thinks.
text: She glances at The El Royale.
dialog: Then.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: How much money we talking about
dialog: exactly?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT 49
text: The mechanical arm chooses another record.
text: The needle hits vinyl. Click click click...
dialog: “Give me a ticket for an aeroplane... ain't got time to take
dialog: a fast train..."
text: Rose stands motionless in the dead center of the room.
text: Staring UP. It’s unclear why.
text: After a moment, she exits frame... and returns with a CHAIR.
text: She seems to be building something.
text: Her movement carries us over to Emily, who has tied up Miles
text: in a chair across the room. She sits down across from him.
text: Looks him in the eye.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: So what is this? Some sort of
dialog: pervert hotel?
text: Miles is in rough shape. His face peppered with buckshot and
text: glass. He’s whimpering. She slaps him out of it.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey -- c’mon --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 79.
scene_heading: 49 CONTINUED: 49
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: No? Yes? I don’t know. You shot
text: me in the face.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Let’s be clear. I shot another man
dialog: who had it comin’. You were back
dialog: there being creepy and caught a
dialog: face of buckshot for your trouble.
dialog: Hold still. You got glass in your
dialog: head.
text: She looks over his wounds. Brushes some of the larger chunks
text: of glass away.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: How’s it look?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I honestly can’t remember what you
dialog: looked like before this, but you
dialog: should probably make peace with the
dialog: fact that things have changed.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Are you gonna kill me?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (thinks )
dialog: How can I not, after what you've
dialog: seen?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I seen worse. And I ain’t saida
dialog: thing.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You've seen worse than a man
text: gettin’ sawn in half with a
dialog: shotgun?
text: Miles thinks about it. His haunted eyes start to drift.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I seen all sorts of bad.
text: In the background, Rose continues to build her project.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 80.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 49
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: I seen a Senator beat up a whore so
dialog: bad she had to shove her own
text: stockings back where her teeth used
dialog: to be, to keep from bleedin’ out
dialog: through the mouth. I seen... I
dialog: seen a junkie paint “Sorry” on the
text: wall in his own filth, like that’d
dialog: make it easier when I cleaned all
dialog: that shit off his cold body.
dialog: (thinks )
dialog: I saw a man lay with a wolf once.
text: Guy drags a full grown, feral wolf
text: on a choke-chain into his room.
text: Ties it up to the bed. Then takes
text: off all his clothes, climbs in bed
text: beside it, and holds the thing all
dialog: night. Like, it wasn’t sexual, but
dialog: it wasn’t not sexual, either.
dialog: (thinks )
text: Guy just lay there crying. Saying
dialog: “Help me” while he held that wolf.
dialog: All night.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I never told nobody ‘bout none of
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (Jesus Christ)
dialog: I ain’t so sure you shoulda told me
dialog: that now.
text: A beat. And then we hear Rose’s footsteps ring out as she
text: begins to run... climbing up the furniture stack and leaping
dialog: into the air...
text: Rose catches hold of THE CHANDELIER. She swings back and
text: forth with glee, like a child at the playground.
text: The light in the room swings back and forth, back and
dialog: forth...
text: Emily stares at Rose. JI can't even deal with this shit right
text: now. She lights a cigarette. She and Miles watch Rose swing
text: back and forth for a beat. Miles glances back at Emily.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: You don’t have to kill me.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 81.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 49
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: What could I even say about you
dialog: anyway? “Some girls shot a guy who
dialog: was gonna shoot them?” I don’t
dialog: even know your names.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I’m Rose!
text: Miles winces. So does Emily.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Don’t tell him your --
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Rose Summerspring.
dialog: (then)
dialog: That's my sister Emily.
text: Emily’s eyes fall. A hint of sadness now as she glances at
text: Miles. They share a look. As though they both know what
dialog: this means.
text: Emily thinks. Then she picks up her shotgun and walks over
text: to the front desk.
text: Miles watches Rose swing.
speaker_heading: ROSE (CONT'D)
dialog: What’s your name?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Miles. Miles Miller.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Nice to meet you, Miles.
text: CLOSE ON THE LEDGER. Emily rips the page free. She looks at
dialog: the names. Thinks.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Where are the others?
scene_heading: INT. ROOM FIVE - NIGHT 50
text: CLOSE ON THE METRONOME. A finger comes into frame. Starts
text: the pendulum rod.
dialog: Tick... tick... tick...
text: Darlene sits in a chair in the middle of her room. We start
text: creeping towards her.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 50
dialog: 51
dialog: 52
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 82.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 50
dialog: Tick... tick... tick...
text: She reaches up, grabs her hair. Pulls at it. It’s A WIG.
text: She tosses it aside.
text: She glances up at herself in THE MIRROR.
dialog: Tick... tick... tick...
text: She begins to sing.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I need love, love, to ease my
dialog: mind... I need to find time,
dialog: someone to call mine...
text: Her voice is soft at first. Timid. Weak.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: My mama said...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 51
text: Emily walks through the dark corridor. She’s carrying the
text: shotgun. She walks past Room Four. Stops at Room Five.
text: Sees Darlene sitting in the middle of her room. Hands in her
text: lap. Singing.
text: Emily frowns. Flips the switch on the intercom.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (IN ROOM)
dialog: «--no you just have to wait... she
dialog: said love don't come easy, it's a
dialog: game of give and take...
text: Emily watches.
text: Darlene takes up most of the window. We may notice the beds
text: behind her have been moved slightly.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (IN ROOM) (CONT’D)
dialog: You can't hurry love... no you just
dialog: have to wait. you got to trust,
dialog: give it time... no matter how long
dialog: it takes...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ROOM FIVE - CONTINUOUS 52
text: IN THE ROOM. Darlene closes her eyes. Voice starting to get
scene_heading: STRONGER.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 54
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 83.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 52
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: But _how many heartaches must I
dialog: stand? Before I find a love to let
dialog: me live again...
text: As she sings, camera starts to drift... behind Darlene... to
text: floor space between the beds...
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: Right now the only thing... that
dialog: keeps me hanging on...
text: ..-where Dock is busy trying to tear up the floor.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: .--when I feel my strength, yeah is
dialog: almost gone... I remember mama
dialog: said...
text: It’s tough goings. Dock has to stay low between the beds.
text: He’s got the carpet torn up, and he’s trying to wedge the
text: crowbar in between the boards.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: You can't hurry love, no you just
dialog: have to wait...
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 53
text: Emily steps closer to the mirror.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: She said love don't come easy, it's
dialog: a game of give and take...
scene_heading: INT. ROOM FIVE - NIGHT 54
text: CLOSE ON DOCK. Sweat dripping down his brow as he works.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: How long must I wait? How much
dialog: more can I take?
text: DOCK’S POV. Down the canyons of the beds, he has a clear
text: view of Darlene in her chair. He watches her sing.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: Before loneliness will cause my
dialog: heart... heart to break?
text: Darlene claps her hands. Stands up. Losing herself in the
text: music now.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 54
dialog: 55
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 84.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 54
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: No I can't bear to live my life
dialog: alone...
text: She claps in time to the beat.
text: Dock grabs his hammer.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: I grow impatient for a love to call
dialog: my own...
text: She locks eyes with Dock for a moment while she dances.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: But when I feel that I, I can't go
dialog: on...
text: She claps. Dock strikes his hammer at the exact same time.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: These precious words keep me
dialog: hanging on...
text: She claps. Dock strikes.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: I remember mama said... you can't
dialog: hurry love... you just have to
dialog: wait...
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 55
text: CLOSE ON EMILY.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: She said love don't come easy, it's
dialog: a game of give and take...
text: In the corridor, the claps and DARLENE’S VOICE cover any
text: sound of Dock working.
text: But Emily keeps watching.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: You can't hurry love... no, you
dialog: just have to wait... she said
dialog: trust, give it time... no matter
dialog: how long it takes...
dialog: (then)
dialog: Now break...
dialog: Tick... tick... tick...
dialog: 56
dialog: 57
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 85.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM FIVE - CONTINUOUS 56
text: Song break. The room goes entirely silent. Just the sound
dialog: of that metronome.
dialog: Tick... tick... tick...
text: Darlene sways. She catches a glimpse of Dock between the
text: beds. Crowbar under the boards. Ready to pry. Frozen.
text: Watching Darlene.
text: Darlene squares herself to the mirror.
dialog: Tick... tick... tick...
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No, love, love... don't come
dialog: easy...
text: She walks towards the mirror. We follow.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: But I keep on waiting...
dialog: anticipating...
text: She's belting it out now. Her voice full of power. She
text: walks right up close to the mirror... looks herself in the
dialog: eye...
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 57
text: It looks like Emily and Darlene are standing nose-to-nose.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: For that soft voice... to talk to
dialog: me at night... for some tender
dialog: arms... to hold me tight...
scene_heading: INT. ROOM FIVE - CONTINUOUS 58
text: And Darlene screams:
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I_keep waiting...
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 59
text: Emily jumps back. Startled.
text: But Darlene keeps swaying.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I keep on waiting...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 86.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 59
text: She claps. It almost looks like she’s having fun.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: But it ain't easy...
scene_heading: INT. ROOM FIVE - CONTINUOUS 60
text: CLOSE ON DOCK. As he pries up the boards under cover of
text: Darlene’s singing.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: It ain't easy. But mama said...
text: The board clears.
dialog: There.
text: Down in the dirt.
text: THE RED BAG.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: You can't hurry love... no you
dialog: just have to wait...
text: Darlene sways back into Dock’s view.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: She said to trust, give it time...
text: They LOCK EYES. It’s there.
text: Darlene’s eyes dance.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: No matter how long it takes.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 61
text: Emily turns away.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: You can't hurry love... no --
text: Click. Emily shuts off the intercom.
text: The world goes eerily silent once again.
text: Emily walks through the halls. Stops at Room Four.
text: It’s empty. She stares at it.
dialog: Thinks.
dialog: 62
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 87.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT 62
dialog: “I Think We're Alone Now” by Tommy James & the Shondells
text: plays on the jukebox. The chandelier is now on the ground,
text: smashed.
text: Rose seems unfazed. She pulls a log out of the fireplace and
text: uses it to light the braziers around the room.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Rose? That’s your name, right?
dialog: Please, Rose... please don’t kill
dialog: me.
text: Rose stands motionless in the center of the room.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: It ain’t entirely up to me.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO:
scene_heading: MALIBU MANSION - NIGHT
text: Same framing. Rose stands over what looks like a DEAD BODY.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: LOUNGE - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: You can talk to her. She’s your
dialog: sister? She’ll listen to you.
speaker_heading: ROSE
text: It’s not up to her, either.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Who’s it up to?
scene_heading: OFF ROSE, MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: MALIBU MANSION - NIGHT
text: CLOSE ON ROSE. As she stares down at the body, we see the
text: SHADOW OF A MAN in the WINDOW behind her.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: LOUNGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Rose doesn’t respond to Miles. She turns to light another
text: brazier.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 62
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 88.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 62
text: Emily enters. Deep in thought. She sets the shotgun down on
text: the front desk.
text: She drums her fingers on the desk. Something about this is
dialog: not right...
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Where’s the priest?
text: She looks across the room. Miles shifts uncomfortably.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Miles?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I don’t know.
text: Emily moves towards him.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: But you know something, don’t you?
text: She reaches into her pocket. Pulls out Miles’ heroin. Slaps
text: it on the table.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: This is yours?
text: Miles nods.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: You want it?
text: Miles stares at the heroin. Nods.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Where’s the priest?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I_don’t know. I promise. I want
dialog: to find him, too. Please.
text: Tears start to well up in his eyes.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: Please. I’11 do whatever you want.
dialog: Just let me talk to the priest when
dialog: you find him.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Just let me talk to him before you
dialog: kill me.
text: In the background, Rose pirouettes on the border.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 89.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 62
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I been trying to tell him, we might
dialog: not have to kill him. But it’s not
dialog: up to us.
text: Emily's face falls. Wait. What?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Who’s it up to?
text: A CHILL runs down her spine as she looks to her sister.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Rosie... what did you do?
text: In the darkness behind Emily, the shadows MOVE...
scene_heading: EXT. ROOM FIVE - NIGHT 63
text: Darlene and Dock slip out of Room Five. Darlene holds the
text: gun, Dock holds the bag. They keep their eyes locked on THE
text: LOBBY as they creep towards the parking lot.
text: They give each other a look. We did it.
text: Darlene motions for Dock to wait. She creeps forward, stares
text: at the front windows of the lobby. It’s DARK. Why's it so
text: dark? She waits as the sound of thunder crashes around them.
text: We can feel Darlene’s heart pounding. Something is wrong...
dialog: but, if we're gonna move, we better move now. Darlene turns
dialog: to Dock... let's go...
text: And_a_man has a knife at Dock’s throat.
dialog: 
text: Darlene’s eyes go wide with shock. She starts to raise the
text: gun... a hand whips out of the shadows behind her, grabs her
text: arm, puts a knife to Darlene’s throat...
text: It all happens FAST in the flashing tempest of the storm.
text: “Twelve-Thirty” by The Mamas & the Papas starts to play.
dialog: I used to live in New York City... Everything there was dark
dialog: and dirty...
text: A MAN approaches.
text: He’s walking towards them though the deluge. As the
text: lightning FLASHES, we catch glimpses of THIS MAN:
text: He’s young. Late-twenties, if we’d had to guess. He's
text: wearing a white shirt, open all the way to his navel.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 90.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 63
text: He’s barefoot. His feet step through the parking lot with
text: rhythm, as though he can hear music nobody else can.
text: Darlene and Dock lock eyes. Stare at this approaching
dialog: figure.
text: Outside my window, there's a steeple...
text: The man stops as he nears. Lifts his face to the rain.
text: Bathes in the storm as though it was a warm shower.
text: With a clock that always reads twelve-thirty...
text: The man smiles. The music SWELLS to CRESCENDO.
scene_heading: MAN IN THE RAIN
dialog: Howdy.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: TITLE: Billy Lee
text: The four-part harmony sings: “Young girls are coming to the
dialog: canyon...”
scene_heading: EXT. TOPANGA CANYON - DAY 64
text: We're looking STRAIGHT DOWN on a field of yellow wildflowers.
text: A nude man runs through the field, cutting the frame.
dialog: “And in the mornings I can see them walking..."
text: We finally get a good look at HIS FACE.
text: This is BILLY LEE.
text: As he walks through the field of wildflowers, we can see a
text: group of mostly-naked followers behind him. We may see Rose
dialog: back there.
text: Billy Lee leads them through the yellow. Feels the sun.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (PRE-LAP)
dialog: How long you lookin’ to stay with
dialog: us?
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - DUSK 65
text: Billy stares at Emily. It’s just the two of them. They’re
text: both clothed. They walk through the dense oaks and
text: eucalyptus trees.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 91.
scene_heading: 65 CONTINUED: 65
text: Emily shifts under his gaze.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'll be here as long as my sister
dialog: is, I suppose.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: You don’t get to be part of the
dialog: family just ‘cause you’re kin. Why
dialog: do you want to be here?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Rosie says you treat her good. I
dialog: ‘ppreciate that.
text: They come upon a large, gnarled oak. Billy Lee sizes it up,
text: starts climbing it. Emily watches.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: That's the second time you brought
dialog: up your sister when I was askin’
dialog: ‘bout you. Don’t worry about
text: Rosie. Rosie’s right where she
dialog: needs to be.
dialog: (climbs )
dialog: You comin’ up?
text: Emily stays right where she is.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I’m fine.
text: Billy Lee leaps from bough to branch to bough with relative
text: ease. Clearly at home up in the treetops.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Don’t get me wrong. I know what
dialog: you've done for your sister. She’d
dialog: still be in that house in Alabama
dialog: without you. So thank you.
dialog: Sincerely. For sendin’ her our
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (bristles)
dialog: Rosie... she told you about where
dialog: we come from?
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Sure. Not that I particularly
dialog: care. You know who else has a
dialog: rough past, Emily? Fuckin’
dialog: everyone.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 92.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 65
text: He climbs higher and higher.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: These trees don’t care about your
dialog: past. This canyon don’t care about
dialog: your past. You want to be someone
dialog: else?
text: He rips free a handful of leaves, tosses them down towards
text: Emily with flourish.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Poof!
text: The leaves flutter all around Emily.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: You’re someone else.
text: The leaves settle. Billy Lee looks down at Emily with THOSE
speaker_heading: EYES.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Or maybe you’re still you.
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: I don’t know. We’ll see, I guess.
text: Emily stares up at Billy Lee. He breaks gaze first. Smiles.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: You sure you ain’t coming up?
text: CLOSE ON BILLY LEE. As he stares out from the bough. Leaves
text: framing his face.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: You can see the whole world from up
dialog: here.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BONFIRE - NIGHT 66
text: SAME FRAMING. CLOSE ON BILLY LEE. The bonfire flames frame
dialog: his face:
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: What does God mean to you?
text: He stares at the assembled crowd of HIS FOLLOWERS:
text: All young. Nobody over thirty. Everybody half-clothed.
text: Free. They drape over one another in the firelight.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 66
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 93.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 66
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Is He some being in the sky? Do
dialog: you pray to Him at night? Do you
dialog: ask Him to watch over you?
text: There’s Emily. Watching from the edge. Billy Lee starts to
text: drift towards her.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Is He here with us now?
dialog: (then)
dialog: Would you know God if he was
dialog: standing right in front of you?
text: He locks eyes with Emily.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Or maybe... maybe there is no God.
dialog: (mock whispers)
dialog: Maybe it’s all lies.
text: He turns his attention back to the crowd. Warm again.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: I honestly don’t know the answer.
dialog: Part of me thinks that if I just
dialog: keep talking ‘til the drugs kick
dialog: in, you all will think I’m
dialog: insightful. Is it working? Give
dialog: it a second.
text: Everyone laughs. They're all enraptured by him.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: I ain’t saying I got it all figured
dialog: out. But. I do see the game.
dialog: They define right and wrong and
dialog: then make you choose. That’s how
text: it all starts. With a simple
dialog: choice. Which side are you on?
dialog: Up/Down. Good/Evil. Right/Wrong.
dialog: God... or no God. It’s simple.
dialog: Just pick.
dialog: (to Rose)
dialog: Boots. Quick. Choose. Are you
dialog: good or are you bad?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I’m neither.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: She's cheating. She knows what
dialog: answer I’m looking for.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 94.
scene_heading: 66 CONTINUED: (2) 66
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m giving a whole speech here,
dialog: Rosie. In front of people. Don’t
dialog: mess this up for me.
dialog: (crowd laughs)
dialog: They’1l get you to pick. You get
text: older, the world changes. Sooner
dialog: or later, you'll need something.
dialog: And they’1l get you to pick a side.
dialog: You won’t even know what happened.
dialog: Watch. I/’11 do it right now.
dialog: (locks eyes with Emily)
dialog: I‘ll do it right now with my star
dialog: pupil.
text: He smiles. Turns to Rose.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Boots, why don’t you come up here
dialog: and help me out?
text: He chooses another girl.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: And Millie, why don’t you join us,
dialog: too. We’re gonna have a tussle
dialog: tonight.
text: The crowd cheers, excited.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Been a while since we’ve had a
dialog: tussle, right? Oh, but Rosie don’t
dialog: want to tussle, right? She’s smart
dialog: enough to know not to play the
dialog: game, right? But this is how I get
dialog: her. I dangle something she really
dialog: wants. You two are gonna have a
dialog: proper tussle tonight. And the
dialog: winner... well, the winner gets to
dialog: sleep in the big house with me
dialog: tonight. How’d that be?
text: And from the looks on both Rose and Millie’s faces, it’s
dialog: clear this is quite an honor.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: See? Now we got skin in the game,
dialog: as they say.
dialog: (then)
dialog: What do you think, Boots? Want to
dialog: play?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 95.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 66
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: So pick a side. Do want to be
dialog: Right or do you want to be Wrong?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I'll be Right.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Then Millie will be Wrong. Let’s
dialog: have ourselves an allegory.
text: The girls nod. They size each other up and down. Billy
text: circles the crowd. Positions himself so he’s between the
text: girls and Emily.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: You girls make sure you stop when I
dialog: tell you to stop. Not like last
dialog: time, Millie, you hear me.
dialog: (then)
dialog: All right, then. Have at it.
text: The girls charge each other. It happens fast. They SLAM
text: into each other and crash into the ground. It’s surprisingly
dialog: violent.
text: Emily steps forward to help her sister.
text: But Billy Lee steps right in her way.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Easy, Emily. She’s a big girl.
dialog: She can take care of herself.
text: Emily's eyes dart to her sister. ON THE GROUND: Rose belts
text: Millie in the face. Millie claws at Rose. The crowd roars
dialog: approval.
speaker_heading: BILY LEE
dialog: (back to crowd)
dialog: Now. Here’s the important part.
dialog: While they’re fighting, what am I
dialog: doing? Cause I sure as hell ain't
dialog: fighting. What am I doing? I’m
text: watching them. Gettin’ off on it.
text: And then, while they’re distracted,
dialog: I’m coming over here. I’m taking
dialog: what’s theirs.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 66
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 96.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 66
text: He goes over to where Rose was sitting. Grabs her bag.
text: Pulls out her cigarettes, stuffs them in his pocket.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: I’m the one already sleeping in the
dialog: big house, and I’m robbing them
dialog: blind. This is all mine now. And
text: they don’t even notice, ‘cause
dialog: they’re too busy playing my game.
dialog: 
text: ON THE GROUND. Rose spits blood as Millie cracks her.
text: Emily steps forward, but Billy Lee flashes her a look that
dialog: says don't you fucking dare.
text: Rose lets out a primal scream and head-butts Millie in the
text: face. Millie goes momentarily limp. Rose rolls on top of
text: her. WHACK. Punches her right in the face. WHACK. Hits
text: her again.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: All right.
text: But Rose doesn’t stop.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: All right, Rosie. Shit.
text: He pulls Rose off Millie. Gestures to one of his
text: lieutenants, WADE, to help up Millie.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: You did good. Tussle’s over. Now
dialog: love each other.
text: The crowd cheers. People slap congratulations to Rose and
text: Millie. Rose gives Millie a hug.
text: Millie looks dazed. Beaten. Ashamed.
text: Rose wipes her lip. She has blood on her face.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: What are we doing out here, anyway?
dialog: We just a bunch of kids doing drugs
dialog: and fucking each other in the
dialog: woods?
dialog: (thinks about it)
dialog: That doesn’t sound so bad,
dialog: actually, now that I say it out
dialog: loud.
dialog: (everyone laughs)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 97.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5) 66
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Shit, maybe we do have it figured
dialog: out after all.
text: Everyone laughs, cheers. Billy Lee lets the crowd settle.
text: Billy Lee cups Rose’s face. Kisses her lips. Tastes her
text: blood. Looks to the crowd.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Maybe we won't play their game no
dialog: more.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Maybe we won't listen to their
dialog: lies.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Maybe the only truth in this world
dialog: is here...
text: He places his hand on his own chest.
text: He puts his hand on the woman next to him. And the man next
text: to her. Goes down the line.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: And here... and here... and right
dialog: here.
text: The crowd cheers. He circles back to Rose and holds her. He
text: locks eyes with Emily across the fire.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Maybe. For tonight. We get to be
dialog: our own Gods.
text: The crowd erupts into cheers.
text: Emily holds his gaze.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT 67
text: Emily stares forward as Wade cinches ropes tight around her.
text: Next to her, ANNABELL, a wiry woman in her twenties, is
text: cinching ropes around a panicked Miles.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: (looks to Dock)
dialog: Bless me Father for I have sinned --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 67
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 98.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 67
text: ROMAN and FLICKER, two men in their twenties, are now busy
text: cinching ropes around both Dock and Darlene.
text: Across the room, in California, Billy Lee is on the couch
text: holding Rose in his arms.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Kid, if you don’t shut up, I’m
dialog: gonna tie your mouth shut.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father, please --
text: Billy Lee looks to Annabell. Do it. She takes the bandana
text: from her neck and ties it around Miles’ mouth.
text: Billy Lee kisses Rose. Smooths her hair. Picks up the red
dialog: bag. And the film can.
text: As he crosses, we get a better look at the room: Dock,
text: Darlene, Emily, and Miles are all now tied in chairs near a
text: roulette table in Nevada. Billy Lee takes the red bag and
text: dumps all the cash on the roulette table. He stares at Dock
text: and Darlene. Tosses the film can on the table as well.
text: Darlene looks at the film can. Looks at Dock. What is that?
text: Dock says nothing.
text: Billy Lee stares at them. Thinks. He grabs THE LEDGER PAGE.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: So I’m guessing you’re Father
text: Flynn, which makes the dead guy in
dialog: seven Laramie Seymour Sullivan.
dialog: And you're Darlene Sweet, right?
dialog: Though I suppose you could be Fuck
dialog: You, but something tells me that’s
dialog: my Emily here. Any other people in
dialog: this hotel?
text: The four of them trade glances. Eyes look to Miles.
text: He shakes his head. No.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: (reads name tag)
dialog: Miles. I’m gonna have my friends
dialog: search this hotel. They find any
dialog: other souls, you die bad.
dialog: Understand?
text: Miles nods.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 67
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 99.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 67
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Any other people here?
text: Miles shakes his head.
text: Billy studies him. Thinks.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Annabell, Wade. You two are on
text: sentry. Stand behind these four.
text: They try to get out of those seats,
text: shoot ‘em in the back of the head.
text: They do as instructed. Wade has a rifle. Annabell picks up
text: Emily’s shotgun.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Flicker, Roman -- go get that body
text: out of room seven. Find his car
dialog: keys, stick the body and all his
dialog: stuff in the trunk. After that, go
dialog: room to room. Find anybody, bring
dialog: ‘em here. In fact, you find
dialog: anything of interest, you bring it
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: FLICKER
dialog: Define “of interest.”
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: “Oh wow oh wow, Billy Lee should
dialog: see this.”
text: Flicker and Roman nod. Head towards the door. As they go:
speaker_heading: FLICKER
dialog: (re: the four)
dialog: And them?
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: I don’t know. But I’d leave some
dialog: room in that trunk.
text: Ding. Flicker and Roman leave.
text: Billy Lee crosses to the bar. Pours himself a drink.
text: Crosses back into Nevada. Sits down at the table.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hiya, Em.
text: She stares at him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 100.
scene_heading: 67 CONTINUED: (3) 67
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Billy Lee.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: You left without sayin’ goodbye.
text: She doesn’t respond.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Did you think I wouldn’t take
dialog: offense?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Naw, I figured you would.
dialog: (then)
dialog: But I’d be ready when you did.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: You don’t look ready.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You caught me on a bad night.
text: Billy Lee almost laughs at that.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Ain’t that the luck.
dialog: (then, quietly)
dialog: You tell them what she did?
text: Emily shakes her head. No.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: What'd I do?
dialog: (remembers )
dialog: Oh. Right.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I’m sorry ‘bout all that.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: That’s okay, Boots. We’ll deal
dialog: with that when we get back to
dialog: California.
dialog: (looks around)
dialog: We got us a Nevada problem now.
text: Billy Lee takes a drink. Thinks. Looks to Miles.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: So what is this -- some sort of
dialog: pervert hotel?
text: The four sit in silence. Miles looks at a loss. What?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 101.
scene_heading: 67 CONTINUED: (4) 67
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: The kid can’t answer you. You tied
text: his mouth shut.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Why don’t I ask you, then? Why
dialog: don’t I ask the priest walking out
text: of the hotel with a bag full of
dialog: money?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: All right.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Yes. I think it’s some sort of
dialog: pervert hotel.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Kid told me he films people
dialog: doing... what not, then sends the
text: films off to his bosses.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Who are his bosses?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: People who own the hotel? I don’t
dialog: know. Does it really matter?
text: Billy Lee studies Miles. Shrugs. I guess it doesn’t.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: And he just offered this up to you?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I think he was trying to confess.
dialog: I think it’s been weighing on him.
dialog: (looks at Miles)
dialog: I think he’s trying to confess
dialog: right now. Because he knows how
dialog: this is gonna go. And he fears for
dialog: his soul.
text: Tears well up in Miles’ eyes. He nods. That's right.
text: Billy Lee rolls his eyes. Pats Miles on the face.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: If you’re so worried about your
dialog: soul, kid, maybe you shouldn’t been
dialog: doing all this bad shit in the
dialog: first place, huh?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 67
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 102.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5) 67
text: He opens the film can. Unspools the 16mm film. Holds it up
text: to the light to get a better look. Squints.
text: He jumps in surprise. Holy shit.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Is that who I think it is?
text: Miles nods.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Who? I want to see.
text: Billy Lee tosses Rose the film. Studies Dock.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Now what’s a man of God like
dialog: yourself doing with that in your
dialog: coat?
text: Rose holds the film up to the light.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: It’s just people fucking.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Wait... I know him.
dialog: (then)
text: He’s dead.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: (nods )
dialog: That he is, Rose. That he is.
text: Billy Lee drums his fingers on his face. Looks to Darlene.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Where’s the money come from?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: It’s --
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: I_ain’t asking you right now,
dialog: Father.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Where’s the money come from?
text: Hold on Darlene. As she stares at these children around her.
dialog: Then. Defiant:
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: It’s mine.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 67
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (6)
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: It’s yours.
dialog: (all right then)
dialog: So where's a girl like you get all
dialog: this money from?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I earned it. Singing.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: (okay)
dialog: You must be one hell of a singer,
dialog: then.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I am.
text: She holds his gaze.
dialog: 103.
dialog: 67
text: After a moment, Billy Lee looks away. He turns his attention
text: back to Dock.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Where’s the money come from?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: She's telling you the truth.
dialog: That’s her money. She earned it
dialog: singing.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: And you’re a man of the cloth.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I am.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: I forgot to mention...
text: Billy Lee finishes his drink. Leans in close to
text: Stares at him with THOSE EYES.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: I_hate priests.
dialog: (then)
dialog: You want to change your story?
text: Dock doesn't flinch. Stares right back.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Nope.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 67
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 104.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (7) 67
text: Hold for a moment. These two men staring each other down.
dialog: Then.
text: Billy Lee smiles.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Alrighty then.
text: He hops up.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Boots, why don’t you find us
dialog: something to listen to on that
text: there jukebox. It’s too quiet in
dialog: here. Gives me the willies.
text: He grabs Dock’s change from where it fell on the floor
text: earlier. Tosses Rose a quarter.
text: She picks a song.
text: “Hush” by Deep Purple starts playing. Rose and Billy Lee
text: sway a bit to the bass line.
text: HOLD ON DOCK AND DARLENE as the music plays around them.
text: Darlene tense. Dock listening.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Who's this?
text: Darlene looks at him. Realizes he’s serious.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: It's... Deep Purple. I think.
dialog: But, it was originally someone
dialog: else. Billy Joe Royal, maybe?
text: Dock listens. Frowns. Shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: It’s not for me.
text: Billy Lee crosses back over to the table. We may notice he
text: has THE REVOLVER tucked into the front of his jeans.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: (to Dock and Darlene)
dialog: I want you two to pay real close
text: attention to what happens next.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 67
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 105.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (8) 67
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: And keep it right up there in the
dialog: front of your mind when I ask you
dialog: questions looking for truthful
dialog: answers.
text: He sits down at the end of the table close to Emily and
text: Miles. He stares right at Emily.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Emily.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Pick a color. Red or black.
text: Across the room, Rose looks up from the film.
text: Emily stares at Billy Lee. Then she shakes her head.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Well that’s not hardly nice. I’m
dialog: offering you a chance here on
dialog: account of the fact that we’re
dialog: practically family. That’s
dialog: downright charitable of me,
dialog: considering.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Boots, you hear what your sister's
dialog: doing?
text: Rose looks at Emily with sad eyes.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Emily... if Billy Lee’s offering
dialog: you a chance... you should take it.
text: Billy Lee smiles. Nods. Locks those eyes on Emily.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: (leans in)
dialog: Did you really think you could take
dialog: what’s mine and I wouldn’t come a-
dialog: huntin’?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: She ain’t yours.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: (oh yeah?)
dialog: Rosie? Are you mine?
text: Rose smiles.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Of course!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 106.
scene_heading: 67 CONTINUED: (9) 67
text: Billy Lee shrugs. There you go. He pours himself another
dialog: drink.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: We used to raise goats out on the
dialog: farm. Boer goats, ‘cause you can
dialog: breed ‘em year round. Bucks are
dialog: ready to go once they’re about
dialog: seven weeks old. Seven weeks!
dialog: (looks to Wade)
dialog: Can you imagine? Think of
dialog: something that happened to you
dialog: seven weeks ago. If you were a
dialog: baby then, you’d be fucking now.
dialog: (then)
dialog: ‘Cause you’re male, I mean. The
dialog: does take about eight months ‘fore
dialog: they’re much use. And you learn.
dialog: When you got a litter, you learn to
dialog: separate the females before those
dialog: bucks come ruttin’. ‘Cause once
dialog: those does go into heat... they’1l
dialog: kill each other. I seen it over
text: and over. They’1ll bash each others
text: heads until their brains spill out
dialog: in the dirt. Happens with mothers-—
dialog: daughters, too. Something about
dialog: the blood, I guess. But it ain’t
dialog: like the sisters.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Ain’t nothing as violent as
dialog: sisters.
text: He finishes his drink.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: None of that is true.
text: Billy Lee looks at her. I’m sorry?
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: There wasn’t no violence ‘til you.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Maybe. Maybe not. But it’s there
dialog: now, though, isn’t it?
dialog: (then)
dialog: Pick a color, Em. I ain’t askin’
dialog: again.
text: HOLD ON EMILY. As she studies this man. As she looks to her
dialog: sister.
text: As she sees her sister nod. Do it, Em..
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 67
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 107.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (10) 67
text: Emily’s shoulders fall. Then.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Red.
text: Billy Lee looks mildly surprised. Good. He gives Annabell a
text: look. She steps in closer behind the four.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Well then I guess that makes you
text: black, alter boy.
text: And Billy Lee spins the roulette ball.
dialog: 
text: Everyone TENSES as they realize what’s happening. The ball
text: whips around the wheel. Wade and Annabell lean in with their
dialog: guns. Their eyes saying stay in your fucking seats.
text: Miles coughs beneath his gag. Billy Lee takes pity on him.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: You got some prayers, you can say
dialog: ‘em now.
text: Billy Lee pulls down Miles’ gag.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Forgive me Father for I have
dialog: sinned, please -- I done so much
dialog: worse than you know --
text: Billy Lee starts laughing.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: Father Flynn, please, I have sinned
dialog: and I repent --
dialog: 
text: Dock stares at Miles. Genuine sadness on his face. He
text: shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Kid...
text: Clack. The ball slows in its revolution, letting out a sharp
text: crack as it bounces in the tray.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Father Flynn --
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Do you want to tell him or you want
dialog: me to do it?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 67
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 108.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (11) 67
dialog: Clack.
speaker_heading: MILES
text: I_ HAVE SINNED AND I REPENT --
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Miles...
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: He’s not a fucking priest, kid.
text: CLOSE ON MILES. As Billy Lee’s words land. As he sees Dock,
text: finally, for who he really is. And he realizes he’s going to
dialog: Hell.
dialog: Clack.
text: The ball comes to a stop in the tray.
dialog: Red.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, it looks like the Lord hasn’t
dialog: forsaken you yet.
text: Billy Lee pulls his revolver.
text: And shoots Emily right in the chest.
text: BANG BANG BANG. She pitches straight backwards. Knocking
text: over Miles. She crashes to the floor.
text: We’re CLOSE ON HER as she hits the ground. On impact, we --
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SUMMERSPRING HOUSE - NIGHT 68
text: YOUNG EMILY screams out as her sister is ripped out from
text: under the bed beside her.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT 69
text: Emily’s eyes look up to her sister. Billy Lee steps in
text: beside Rose.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: I gave her a fair shake, Rose.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 69
dialog: 70
dialog: 71
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 109.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 69
text: CLOSE ON ROSE, as she nods --
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SUMMERSPRING HOUSE - NIGHT 70
text: YOUNG ROSE, in her father’s arms, stares back at her sister
text: as she’s carried away. Her father holds her close.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT 71
text: Billy Lee holds Rose. Emily’s eyes go dim.
text: ON MILES. On the ground, rocking back and forth. Crying.
text: Hands still bound in front of him. Staring at Emily’s dead
dialog: body.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Now then. Who wants to play next?
text: Darlene and Dock tense in their seats.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ah ah -- Wade, Annabell -- keep a
dialog: close eye there. Everyone’s liable
dialog: to get more squirrelly now that
dialog: they know the stakes.
dialog: (to Dock)
dialog: She'll cut you in half with that
dialog: shotgun.
text: Billy Lee sits down across from Dock and Darlene. Grabs the
text: roulette ball. Tosses it back and forth in his hand.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: You two gonna be more forthcoming?
text: Dock thinks about it. Nods.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Sure.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Could I have some of that whiskey?
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: (studies him)
dialog: Why not.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Boots! Get the padre here a glass.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 71
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 110.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 71
text: She does. As she crosses back to the table, her eyes linger
text: on the body of her dead sister. Miles whimpers on the
text: ground. He’s muttering something to himself as he rocks back
dialog: and forth.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Kid, you don’t shut the fuck up,
dialog: I’m gonna make you play again.
text: Miles quiets down. Rose puts the glass on the table. Billy
text: Lee pours Dock a drink.
text: Dock’s hands are tied behind his back. He doesn’t know what
text: to do. Rose looks at Billy Lee. You want me to untie him?
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
text: No. His hands stay tied.
text: Billy Lee picks up the drink. Holds it to Dock’s lips. Dock
dialog: drinks.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Where’s the money from?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I stole it from a bank about a
dialog: decade ago. I hid it here, but got
dialog: myself caught by the cops. Did
dialog: some time. Got out a few days ago.
dialog: Came back tonight to retrieve it.
text: And he says it real matter-of-fact. So much so, it takes
text: Billy Lee a second to absorb it. Then he laughs.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Tonight.
text: Dock nods.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Why you dressed up like a priest?
text: ON MILES. Watching Dock across the room.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I didn’t want too many questions.
dialog: People tend to look the other way
dialog: when you're wearing a collar.
text: Billy Lee nods. Satisfied. Looks to Darlene.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: And you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 111.
scene_heading: 71 CONTINUED: (2) 71
text: Darlene shifts a bit in her seat.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I’m just a singer. The money
dialog: happened to be hid in my room. He
dialog: said he'd split it with me if I
dialog: helped him get it back.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: ‘Course he did. ‘Cause that ain’t
dialog: even the real score, is it, padre?
dialog: No, ‘cause you found this.
text: Billy Lee picks up the film. Brings it back to the table.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Darlene)
dialog: I bet he didn’t tell you about
dialog: this, did he? Don’t you even want
dialog: to see who’s on it?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
text: No. I don’t. It doesn’t matter.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Darlin’, then you ain’t
dialog: understandin’ what’s on this --
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Stop. Stop talking.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I don’t need to look at the film.
dialog: Let me guess: it’s some man who
dialog: talks a lot. He talks so much he
text: thinks he believes in something.
dialog: But really... he just wants to fuck
dialog: who he wants to fuck.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I’ve seen that enough. I’m not
dialog: even angry about it anymore. I’m
dialog: just tired. I’m just bored. of
dialog: men like you. You think I don’t
dialog: see you for what you are? A
text: fragile little man. Preying on the
text: weak and the lost.
dialog: 
text: He starts to speak, but she cuts him off --
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: I've heard it. I don’t care.
dialog: (beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 71
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 112.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 71
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: I'd rather sit here and listen to
dialog: the rain.
text: Billy Lee’s eyes flash. Darlene doesn’t blink.
text: The whole room seems to hold its breath. We hear the rain
text: outside. It seems to be getting louder.
dialog: Then.
text: Billy Lee breaks Darlene’s gaze. The violence in his eyes
text: vanishes as quickly as it appeared. He throws a patronizing
dialog: shrug Darlene’s way --
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: You go right ahead.
text: And turns his attention back to Dock.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Why didn’t you just leave when you
dialog: had the film? That’s worth way
text: more than some bag of money.
dialog: Dock considers.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I did time for that money. My
dialog: brother died for that money. That
dialog: money’s mine.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: That money’s ours.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: That money’s ours.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Why’s that filmstrip worth so much
dialog: anyway? That guy’s dead. Who
dialog: cares?
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Well, Boots... sometimes, the
dialog: memory of a man matters more than
dialog: the man himself. Ain’t that right,
dialog: padre?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: If you say so.
text: Billy Lee drums his fingers. Thinks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 113.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 71
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Who’s gonna come looking for this
dialog: money?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Nobody.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Somebody's always looking for
dialog: money.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: They’re all gone. ‘Cept me.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: And who are you again? Let’s say I
dialog: want to check this story out... who
dialog: am I looking for? What’s your real
dialog: name, father?
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: (nods )
dialog: It’s...
text: And Dock’s face goes blank.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: (searches)
dialog: It’s, um...
text: Dock almost laughs at the absurdity. He can't remember his
text: own name. But then we see real fear in his eyes, just like
dialog: we saw in the prison. Just like we saw when we first met
text: him, standing in the parking lot.
dialog: He can’t remember.
text: He looks to Miles.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: (hang on)
dialog: It’s...
text: Billy Lee rolls his eyes.
text: Dock looks to Darlene. Almost pleading.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: Did I tell you my real name?
text: Darlene looks at Dock with sympathetic eyes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 71
dialog: 72
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 114.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5) 71
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: You never did.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Really? Now you want to start
dialog: playing games again?
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: He can’t remember. His mind -- it
dialog: ain’t all there no more.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: That’s what he told you.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: He did.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: And you believe anything this old
dialog: crook says.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: I believe that much. Yeah.
text: Billy Lee stares at both of them. Fed up with all of this.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Well then. Let’s see if we can’t
text: jog his memory.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Darlene. Pick a color.
text: BOOM. Right then, a violent CLAP of thunder shakes the
dialog: hotel.
text: And_all the power goes out in the room. 72
dialog: 
text: Everyone jumps in surprise.
text: Dock and Darlene realize, too late, they missed a chance.
text: But Annabell and Wade still have guns trained at their heads.
text: Billy Lee holds up his hands. Take it easy, take it easy...
text: Everything QUIET. The jukebox silent.
text: Billy Lee starts laughing.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Oof. That's right unsettling.
text: The only light comes from the firepits around the room.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 115.
speaker_heading: 72 CONTINUED:
dialog: 72
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: (shivers)
text: It’s quiet again.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I don’t like it.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: No, I don’t like it either.
dialog: (thinks )
dialog: Ain’t you supposed to be a singer?
dialog: Why don’t you sing something for
dialog: us, then, Darlene?
text: Darlene’s eyes go cold. She stares at Billy Lee. After a
text: moment, she shakes her head.
dialog: Billy Lee
dialog: Billy Lee
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: No thank you.
text: smiles.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Tell you what. You sing something
dialog: for us. And if you're as good as
dialog: you say, I won’t make you play the
dialog: game.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Don’t do it.
dialog: (then)
dialog: He’s gonna do what he’s gonna do.
dialog: But he don’t deserve to hear you
dialog: sing.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
text: No. He does not.
text: stares at both of them. Unable to mask his anger
text: at Dock’s words.
dialog: Billy Lee
dialog: Billy Lee
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Suit your fuckin’ selves.
text: spins the roulette ball.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Wait.
text: catches the roulette ball. Everything goes silent.
text: Everyone stares at Darlene.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 72
dialog: 73
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 116.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 72
text: HOLD ON DARLENE. As she looks at these people around her.
dialog: These felons, these criminals, these children. All of them.
text: She closes her eyes.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh... My love...
text: Her body relaxes. As though she’s no longer here in this
text: dead-end border hotel. Her words come out quiet, never weak.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: My darling, I've... hungered for
dialog: your touch...
text: Everyone dead still as she sings. The firelight casting
text: orange flickering shadows on their faces as they watch.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
text: A long, lonely time.
text: Her voice grows LOUDER.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: And time... goes by, so slowly....
dialog: And time, can do so much...
dialog: (belting it out now)
dialog: Are you, still --
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: I’ve heard better.
text: He spins the roulette ball.
text: Dock's eyes go blood simple. 73
text: WHAM! Dock explodes out of his seat, shattering his chair.
text: He slams his forehead right into Billy Lee’s face. Blood
text: SPLATTERS as Billy Lee’s nose SHATTERS -- Billy Lee and Dock
dialog: topple backwards --
text: And a bunch of things happen ALL AT ONCE:
text: -- Dock and Billy Lee crash right into one of the firepits,
text: sending fire and embers and flaming logs everywhere.
text: -- Annabell, surprised by the violence, FIRES HER SHOTGUN.
text: BOOM! The sound rips through the room, the buck shot cutting
text: through the air where Dock just was, blasting flames and
text: shredding furniture.
text: -- Darlene, moving on terror and instinct, kicks herself
text: backwards, away from the table. The table FLIPS --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 73
dialog: 74
dialog: 75
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 117.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 73
text: -- Everyone hits the ground in a mess of CASH, CHIPS,
text: WHISKEY, and GLASS.
text: Dock lands right on top of Billy Lee.
text: Billy Lee’s gun goes skittering across the floor.
text: And stops right between Darlene and Miles.
text: Annabell raises her shotgun again. Pulls the trigger. But
text: Rose grabs the barrel at the last second.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: wo!
text: BOOM. The shot cuts the room. Blows another brazier into a
text: fireball.
speaker_heading: ROSE (CONT'D)
dialog: You'll hit Billy Lee!
text: Dock and Billy Lee tear into each other on the ground. 74
text: Violent and feral -- two men desperately trying to kill each
text: other. Billy Lee bashes Dock -- Dock grabs a FLAMING LOG --
text: WHAM! He bashes Billy Lee in the face again and AGAIN --
dialog: ashes and FLAMES spread --
text: Rose SCREAMS. She dives at Dock. Tackles him off of Billy
text: Lee. Annabell and Wade can’t get clean shots.
text: FLAMES leap throughout the lobby, burning the rugs, the
text: couches, the walls.
text: ON THE GROUND: Darlene looks at the gun. Just feet from her.75
text: But her hands are tied behind her back. She looks Miles in
text: the eyes. He can grab it.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Miles --
text: But Miles is terrified. No longer fully with us anymore.
text: Rocking back and forth on the ground. Crying. We start to
dialog: hear what he’s been muttering this entire time:
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I can't I swore to God I can't kill
dialog: no more people --
speaker_heading: DARLENE
speaker_heading: Miles, HELP US --
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I_can't kill no more people.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 75
dialog: 76
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 118.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 75
text: And Darlene finally realizes what he’s saying. Wait. What?
text: Her words come out almost as a reflex:
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: H-how many people have you killed,
dialog: Miles?
text: CLOSE ON MILES as he thinks about it.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: One-hundred and twenty-three.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
scene_heading: TITLE: Maintenance Closet
scene_heading: EXT. MILLER FARM - DAY 76
text: SAME FRAMING. Eight-year-old MILES MILLER raises a rifle.
text: He takes his time, sites the rifle...
speaker_heading: CRACK.
dialog: Whump.
text: Widen to reveal Miles is standing on his family farm.
text: They're having some sort of family gathering. Brothers and
text: sisters, aunts and uncles all eating food, drinking
text: moonshine, having a day.
text: But everyone’s watching Miles.
speaker_heading: CRACK.
dialog: Whump.
text: This little eight-year-old boy is shooting sparrows out of
text: the air while they're in flight with a rifle.
text: Miles’ AUNTIE RUTH stands next to his momma, GINGER.
speaker_heading: AUNTIE RUTH
dialog: Ho my heavens, Ginger! Look what
dialog: your boy can do. If you’re not
dialog: careful, you’re gonna have an army
text: sniper in the family.
speaker_heading: GINGER
dialog: Over my dead body. Daddy’d roll in
dialog: his grave if I let Miles join the
dialog: Army. No sir...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 119.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 76
text: ON MILES. Firing his rifle. We can see Ruth and Ginger in
dialog: the background.
speaker_heading: GINGER (CONT'D)
dialog: That boy is a Marine if there ever
dialog: was one.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. KHE SAHN - NIGHT 77
text: SAME FRAMING. Miles, now grown, fires his sniper rifle as
text: fast as he can as the cacophony of war rings out all around
text: him. Two SOLDIERS stand in the frame where Auntie Ruth and
text: Ginger stood. They look up at the sound of --
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: INCOMING!
text: BOOM. The soldiers are obliterated. Miles is blasted down
text: the hill. The blood of his company all over him.
dialog: We're in Khe Sanh, January, 1968. One of the bloodiest
text: battles of the entire war. All around us: bullets fly,
text: artillery explodes, men scream.
text: SERGEANT RENFRO races forward. Yanks Miles to his feet.
scene_heading: SERGEANT RENFRO
dialog: Miller! Why the fuck have you
dialog: stopped shooting! ?
text: Miles’ head is ringing. He’s clearly in shock. Terrified.
text: As he stares at the war around him --
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I can't -- I can't do it no more --
scene_heading: SERGEANT RENFRO
dialog: Get back on your fucking post! We
dialog: don't hold this line, WE ALL DIE!
dialog: (then)
dialog: MILLER!
text: Miles shakes his head. He’s gone. Clearly in shock. Renfro
text: stares at him. Genuine compassion in his eyes.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT RENFRO (CONT’D)
dialog: Miles.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Miles. I don’t want to die here.
dialog: I don’t want to die here on this
dialog: hill tonight.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 77
dialog: 78
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 120.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 77
speaker_heading: SERGEANT RENFRO (CONT’D)
dialog: (then)
dialog: I want to go home.
text: Miles stares at Renfro. Hearing him.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT RENFRO (CONT’D)
dialog: Do you want to go home?
text: Miles stares at the violence all around him.
text: He nods.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT RENFRO (CONT’D)
dialog: Good.
text: Sergeant Renfro thrusts the rifle back in Miles’ hands.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT RENFRO (CONT’D)
dialog: Now shoot every fucking thing that
dialog: moves.
text: Miles nods. He raises his rifle once again. CRACK. Whump.
scene_heading: CRACK. Whump.
text: ANGLE IN ON MILES. Crack. Whump. Settling close on HIS
text: EYES. Crack. Whump.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. KHE SANH - DAY 78
text: SAME FRAMING. Miles’ eyes SNAP OPEN. He gasps for air. As
text: though awakening from a horrible nightmare.
text: WIDEN. It’s three days later. Miles is half-buried in the
text: jungle. A mess of ruined bunker and debris all around him.
text: It's day now. It’s clear. It’s quiet.
text: Miles pulls himself from his shallow grave.
text: He steps out of the clearing. His face blank. Deep in
text: shock. The walking dead.
text: He face doesn’t react to what he’s seeing. We angle around
dialog: to reveal:
text: The aftermath of The Bloody Battle of Khe Sanh.
text: Dead bodies EVERYWHERE. Hundreds... no... thousands... North
text: Vietnamese and U.S. Solders, all around. All half-buried in
text: the sordid muck of Vietnam.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 80
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 121.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 78
text: Miles walks through the carnage.
text: His hands start shaking.
text: He drops to his knees.
text: He begins to pray.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT 79
text: SAME FRAMING. ON MILES. Shaking his head. Near-catatonic.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I can't do it... I swore to God...
dialog: I can't kill no more people... I
dialog: can't...
text: ON DARLENE. Watching Miles. And, yes, there’s no real way
text: she can know what he’s done, but she can see enough in his
text: face. She can see he’s in agony. She can see he’s lost.
text: Her face softens. Genuine compassion in her voice.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: It’s all right, Miles. You don’t
dialog: have to kill no more people.
text: Those words seem to get through to Miles. Darlene closes her
text: eyes.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: I don't want to die. Please don't
dialog: let me die here, Lord.
text: Miles looks at her.
text: ACROSS THE ROOM: Wade CRACKS Dock across the back of the head80
text: with the rifle. Dock goes limp. Billy Lee skitters free.
text: Wade and Annabell pummel Dock.
text: AROUND THEM: smoke and fire fill the room.
text: Billy Lee struggles to his feet. His nose destroyed. His
text: face covered in blood. Fury in his eyes.
text: Billy Lee grabs Annabell’s shotgun from the floor. Finds
text: loose shells. Reloads it.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE
dialog: Get him up.
text: Wade and Annabell yank Dock to his feet.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 122.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 80
text: Dock’s face is beat up pretty good. But he’s alert. His
text: eyes still register when Billy Lee takes the shotgun and
text: sticks it right up under Dock’s chin.
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: See if you can’t remember this.
dialog: Click.
text: Billy Lee freezes as he hears the unmistakable sound of a
text: revolver being cocked behind him.
text: Everyone turns.
text: To find Miles. On his feet. Pointing the gun right at Billy
dialog: Lee.
text: Billy Lee holds his hand up. Calm down...
speaker_heading: BILLY LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Take it easy, alter-bo--
text: CRACK. Miles shoots Billy Lee right between the eyes.
text: Rose lets out a horrific, primal scream.
speaker_heading: ROSE
speaker_heading: NoOOO0O00!
text: Wade swings his rifle, Annabell reaches for Billy Lee’s
dialog: shotgun...
text: CRACK CRACK. Two shots. On the move. Miles drills them
text: both right between the eyes. Whump whump.
text: Rose cradles Billy Lee’s body in her arms. Screaming.
speaker_heading: ROSE (CONT'D)
dialog: No BILLY LEE no!
text: Miles keeps moving. We see the soldier now. He checks the
text: load on the revolver. One bullet left. He grabs the hunting
text: knife off the floor. Hands Dock the revolver. Keeps moving.
text: Miles kicks Wade’s rifle up to himself. Catches it ina
text: smooth motion. Dives towards the front window. CRASH! He
text: breaks the front window with the butt of his rifle.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 81
dialog: Remember Flicker and Roman? They had just finished loading
text: Dwight’s body into the trunk when they heard the commotion.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 123.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 81
text: And now they're frozen in the parking lot. Crouched behind
text: cars. Holding their guns.
text: They peek their heads up, trying to get a sightline to the
text: front window. Trying to figure out what the hell's going on
text: in that lobby.
text: Flicker and Roman lock eyes. Ready to move. Flicker peeks
text: over the car.
text: CRACK. Flicker’s head explodes.
text: Roman jumps in surprise.
text: CRACK. Roman takes it right between the eyes.
text: Whump. Whump. Two down.
scene_heading: INT LOUNGE - NIGHT 82
text: Dock cuts Darlene free, helps to her feet. She rubs her
text: wrists. They look towards --
text: ROSE. Screaming and crying on the ground. Rocking Billy
text: Lee’s dead body in her arms.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: No no no no no... don't leave me,
dialog: Billy Lee, don't leave me...
text: Miles listens to her cries. The soldier falls away. The
text: innocent boy returns.
text: He drops his rifle. Walks over to her. Puts his hand on her
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.
text: Rose’s eyes narrow. She pulls THE KNIFE out of Billy Lee’s
dialog: belt.
text: SHRACK. She cuts Miles’ stomach open.
text: Miles pitches backwards. Whump. His body lands right on the
dialog: border between California and Nevada.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: NO --
text: BANG. Dock shoots Rose in the chest with the revolver. She
text: slumps dead. Still entangled in California with Billy Lee.
dialog: 83
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 124.
text: ON THE GROUND. Miles gasps. Looks at his hands. Blood 83
dialog: everywhere. Oh god.
text: Darlene races to him. Holds this terrified boy.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: No no no no -- I can’t die. I
dialog: don’t want to die... not yet --
text: Darlene looks at Miles wound. Sees how bad it is. Looks to
dialog: Dock for help.
text: Dock’'s frozen. Flames starting to burn all around him.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: No no Lord please no I can't die
dialog: not like this --
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Help him.
text: Dock steps across the line into Nevada. Kneels down next to
text: them. Sees the bad news for himself. There's nothing to be
dialog: done...
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: I can’t.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Please God I don't want to die not
dialog: yet --
text: Darlene grabs Dock’s shoulder. Looks him in the eye.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Help him.
text: CLOSE ON DOCK. As he realizes what she’s saying. As clarity
text: washes over him.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Confess.
text: He takes Miles in his arms.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: My son. Confess.
text: Miles stares up at Dock. Confused. Dying. He shakes his
text: head. Blood coughing from his lips.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 83
dialog: Bad Times At The El Royale
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: ON MILES.
text: over him.
dialog: Dock holds
text: ON DOCK.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Final Shooting Draft 125.
dialog: 83
dialog: You're not... You're not a...
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Miles Miller. My name is Father
dialog: Daniel Flynn. And I am here to
dialog: absolve you of your sins.
text: As he stares at Dock.
speaker_heading: MILES
text: A calm starting to wash
dialog: Bless me, Father, for I have
dialog: sinned...
text: him. Nods. Continue.
speaker_heading: MILES (CONT’D)
dialog: I’ve sinned, I’ve sinned more times
dialog: than I can count. I’ve killed,
dialog: I've killed so many people... in
dialog: war, here, I know it was wrong they
dialog: told me to do it and I know it was
dialog: wrong and I did it anyway... I’m so
dialog: sorry, Father...
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: It’s all right.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: It’s not. I did so much bad. I
dialog: lied. I stole. I hurt people. I
dialog: killed people. I did it all even
dialog: though I know it was wrong... I’m
dialog: so sorry, Father...
text: Staring at this terrified boy in his arms.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Do you seek absolution for your
dialog: sins?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Ido. Yes.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Do you give yourself to the mercy
dialog: of the Lord?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 126.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 83
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: Will you give to Him the time you
dialog: have left?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I’m too late.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: It is never too late, my son.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Yes. I will try. I will try to be
dialog: better. I will try to be a better
dialog: man.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I repent. Father Flynn, I repent.
dialog: (coughs blood)
dialog: Lord, I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.
text: Dock takes his hand, places it on Miles’ chest. Holds his
dialog: gaze. Shh.
speaker_heading: DOCK
dialog: You are forgiven.
text: Miles begins to relax as soon as he hears those words.
speaker_heading: DOCK (CONT'D)
dialog: Miles Miller. In the name of the
dialog: Father, the Son, and the Holy
dialog: Spirit... you are forgiven.
text: Miles nods. His eyes drift to the middle distance. At
text: peace, finally.
text: He dies in Dock’s arms.
text: A moment. Dock and Darlene share a look. Dock lays Miles’
text: body down gently to the ground. Darlene closes his eyes.
dialog: Dock and Darlene stand. 84
text: They look around. The flames are now crawling the walls.
text: Smoke billows through the room. They glance at each other.
text: A silent agreement. They spring to action.
text: They both scoop up what cash they can.
text: They stuff it into the red bag.
dialog: Time to go.
text: As they’re leaving, Dock sees THE FILM CAN.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 84
dialog: 85
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 127.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 84
text: He picks it up.
dialog: Thinks.
text: Hands it to Darlene.
text: She stares at it for a moment.
text: Then she throws it into the fire.
text: WHUMP. We’re CLOSE on the film reel as it burns and twists
text: and smokes in the heat.
text: Somebody tosses THE LEDGER PAGE on top of it as well. We see
text: the names, underlit by the flames: Laramie Seymour
dialog: Sullivan... Fuck You... Darlene Sweet... Father Daniel
dialog: Flynn...
text: Dock and Darlene head for the door.
text: HOLD ON THE PAPER. The names burst into flame.
text: WIDE ON THE ROOM. As flames devour the El Royale, Dock opens
text: the Nevada door for Darlene. We see the first rays of dawn
text: on the horizon.
dialog: Ring-ring.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: TITLE: Reno 85
text: OVER BLACK, we hear the sounds of a not-so-bustling keno
text: parlor. People talking, slot machines ringing...
text: We hear the voice of MILTON WYRICK, our emcee for the
dialog: evening...
speaker_heading: MILTON (0.S.)
dialog: Folks, I feel like we’ve got a
dialog: genuine Humdinger Jackpot in here
dialog: tonight, I really do...
dialog: TITLE: Humdinger Lounge
speaker_heading: MILTON (0.S.) (CONT’D)
dialog: Last time I felt this way, we gave
text: away a brand new, candy-apple red
dialog: Chrysler De Soto to a lovely couple
dialog: from St. Paul, Minnesota.
scene_heading: TITLE: 6 p.m. shift
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 85
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 128.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 85
speaker_heading: MILTON (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Bill and Elaine... McIntyre, I want
dialog: to say. Good people. Could be
dialog: you. Here we go...
speaker_heading: TITLE: Wednesday
scene_heading: INT. HUMDINGER LOUNGE - NIGHT
text: We're FOLLOWING A MAN as he walks through the Humdinger
dialog: Lounge, Reno’s sixth-best combination dinner lounge and keno
text: parlor. We hear the sound of the emcee calling to us from
dialog: another room:
speaker_heading: MILTON (0.S.) (CONT’D)
dialog: Seven, nine, sixteen, thirty-one,
dialog: forty-two, forty-seven, sixty-
dialog: three, seventy-six, and... eighty.
text: The man makes his way through the smoke-filled rows of people
text: playing slots. He’s heading towards the back lounge, where a
text: group of musicians are setting up on a small corner stage.
text: The man stops at the threshold.
text: He rubs his hands on his pants. As though he’s not quite
dialog: sure what to do.
text: He looks for a seat in the lounge. (There are plenty
dialog: available.)
speaker_heading: MILTON (ONSTAGE) (CONT'D)
dialog: If you hit, come see the cashier so
dialog: we can get you down before the next
dialog: draw.
text: The man sits down.
text: We see his face.
dialog: It’s Dock.
speaker_heading: MILTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Now, we've got a special treat for
dialog: you tonight. Coming to you all the
dialog: way from beautiful Los Angeles,
dialog: California. You’ve heard her sing
dialog: on records with artists such as The
dialog: Crystals, Martha Reeves, The
dialog: Marvelettes, Wilson Pickett, and
dialog: The Miracles. Ladies and
dialog: gentlemen, let’s give a warm, Reno
dialog: welcome to... Darlene Sweet!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 85
text: Bad Times At The El Royale Final Shooting Draft 129.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 85
text: Darlene steps on stage to a scattering of applause. We may
text: notice she has a brand new dress.
text: She nods hello to her band for the evening. Hi boys. She
text: looks to the audience.
speaker_heading: DARLENE
dialog: Thank y’all for coming out to
dialog: listen to me tonight.
text: A moment. As she stands in the light. Grateful for her
dialog: life.
speaker_heading: DARLENE (CONT'D)
dialog: It means the world.
text: She sees Dock. Sitting alone in the back of the room. She
dialog: almost seems surprised to see him. It’s you.
text: He nods hello.
dialog: She smiles. Hello, Dock.
dialog: Then. Back to business.
dialog: Two, three, four...
text: Darlene grabs the microphone.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
dialog: The End
text: OVER CREDITS: Darlene Sweet and her backup band level the 6
text: p.m. Wednesday crowd at the Humdinger Lounge with an
text: absolutely blistering cover of Sam & Dave’s “Hold On, I’m
dialog: Coming.”
dialog: Don't you ever be sad...
dialog: Lean on me, when times are bad...
dialog: Just hold on.
dialog: I'm coming.
dialog: 
