speaker_heading: BALLS OUT
dialog: A Deely Somewhat AWESOME Original Screenplay
dialog: by
scene_heading: THE ROBOTARD 8000
dialog: Copyright © 2009 All Rights Reserved
scene_heading: FADE THE FUCK IN:
text: A brief, painful MONTAGE establishing THE COD:
text: CAPE motherfucking COD.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH PARKING LOT - SUNNY DAY
text: Clogged with doughy tourists bulging out of their
text: bathing suits. A long line of cars waiting to park
text: snakes out onto the main road. In the distance, we
text: HEAR the persistent sound of a STUCK CAR HORN getting
dialog: louder.
text: A BRAND NEW BMW barrels past the line of waiting
text: cars. Steam billows from its severely dented grill.
text: With no regard for anyone, the Beamer swerves in
text: front of an old lady and skids to a stop across the
text: last two handicap spaces.
text: JIM SIMMERS (38) calmly exits the vehicle and begins
text: to peel off his robe and pyjamas one piece at a time
text: as he marches towards a trash can.
text: He’s down to his underwear as he snatches a newspaper
text: out of the PARKING ATTENDANT'S hand and buck naked by
text: the time he squats into the trash can to take a shit.
text: It’s a scene, man. He’s folded in half, ass
text: submerged in the trash can, knees dangling over the
text: side. Jim flips to the sports page, seemingly
text: unaware of the slack-jawed GAWKERS crowded around.
text: The STUCK CAR HORN in the background is accented by a
text: short GRUNT of relief as Jim finishes.
text: He struggles to get out of the can, then pushes past
text: the horrified crowd, bee-lining for the ocean. Naked
text: as a jaybird, he strides purposefully into the cold
dialog: waters of the Atlantic.
text: The wailing CAR HORN rises in CRESCENDO as we...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: CLOSE ON A POT OF BOILING WATER FOR NO GOOD REASON...
dialog: +.-no good reason whatsoever.
scene_heading: SUPER: TWO WEEKS EARLIER
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BEDROOM - MORNING
text: The barking dog next door wakes Jim up two hours too
text: early, just like always.
text: He’s wearing those same pyjamas, slips on that same
text: robe, walks through his sad little apartment, into...
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - MORNING
dialog: The proper place to shit. But Jim’s only pissing
text: this morning. Long and pungent.
scene_heading: INT. JIM'’S KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Jim sets out his cereal, his juice, his milk and his
text: fiber additives. He adds eight frozen raspberries -
text: not seven, not nine but eight - to his bowl.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S LIVING ROOM - LATER
text: Jim is now dressed in the uniform of middle
text: Management: a short-sleeved dress shirt, maudlin tie,
text: and pleated Dockers®. A backpack slung over both
text: shoulders completes his lame appearance.
text: He picks up a book, “365 Morning Affirmations”, turns
text: to an earmarked page, looks in the mirror...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You're a winner, Jim Simmers.
dialog: But he’s not.
scene_heading: EXT. JIM’S APARTMENT - MORNING
text: Jim peeks out. Looks around. The coast is clear.
text: But the second he steps onto the sidewalk, A BIG
text: ASSHOLE DOG - the same one whose barking woke him
text: earlier - menaces him.
text: Jim stands motionless while the four-legged
text: cocksucker barks maniacally at him.
text: THE GAY NEIGHBOR, a short, shaved-bald fireplug of a
text: dude, steps outside.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: A little help here.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: I’m so sorry. I don’t know why
dialog: he’s like that with you.
dialog: (to the dog)
dialog: Hoag! David Hoag, you come here!
text: David Hoag trots back to his owner.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I don’t wanna sound like a broken
dialog: record here, but you kind of
dialog: promised to keep him locked up.
text: The Gay Neighbor ignores him, fixated on a string
text: dangling from his dog’s ass.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: What’d you eat, Hoagster? Huh?
dialog: (looks waaay up there)
dialog: You’ve been scavenging, haven’t you
dialog: Hoagie?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Okay...so...you’1ll leash your dog
dialog: from now on, right?
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: (pulling the dog’s legs apart)
dialog: Huh? Oh, absolutely.
text: Jim shakes his head and proceeds to enter...
scene_heading: INT. SPORTY KIA SPECTRUM (WITH RACING STRIPE) - MORNING
text: Jim straps in and drives off, cranking Duran Duran’s
text: “The Reflex” on his shitbox’s crappy stereo.
scene_heading: EXT. MID-CAPE HIGHWAY - MORNING
text: Empty. Yet there’s a stoplight. And Jim stops at it
text: despite being the only car out.
text: AN SUV PULLS UP NEXT TO HIM. Jim turns downs his
text: music, self-conscious. Still the light remains red,
text: taunting Jim. The SUV runs it, but Jim waits.
text: And waits. A TRUCK barrels through the light without
text: stopping. Finally it turns green. Jim pulls off.
scene_heading: EXT. SHOPPING PLAZA - MORNING
text: A Dunkin’ Donuts, a convenience store and a Post
text: Office. Jim’s parks his car politely, climbs out and
dialog: heads into...
scene_heading: INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - CONTINUOUS
text: Jim places a newspaper on the counter while a HOT YOUNG
text: CLERK rambles on the phone, ignoring him.
scene_heading: HOT YOUNG CLERK
dialog: First he fucks the shit out of me,
dialog: then beats the shit out of me,
dialog: which would be fine if I wasn’t the
dialog: one smuggling his crack into prison
dialog: when I’m visiting his brother.
dialog: Shit, it’s not like he’s gonna help
dialog: me get my baby back from the
dialog: Jamaican assholes we met at the
dialog: rage...
text: Jim is both intrigued and embarrassed by her
dialog: conversation.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Can I please--
dialog: (she holds up her finger)
dialog: Can I please--
dialog: (finger goes up again)
dialog: Look, I just need--
scene_heading: HOT YOUNG CLERK
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: Hold on one second, Juno!
dialog: (to Jim)
dialog: Here!
text: She punches a few buttons on the lottery machine and
text: shoves the resulting tickets at Jim.
scene_heading: HOT YOUNG CLERK
text: Five quick picks, two megabucks and
dialog: a daily double, 0-5-0-8, and one
dialog: Cape Cod Times!
text: Jim pays her and snatches his shit, irked.
dialog: HOT YOUNG CHICK
dialog: You might as well burn your money,
dialog: man. You’re never gonna win.
text: Jim heads out.
scene_heading: EXT. VALID INSURANCE BUILDING - DAY
text: Jim pulls up to a nondescript, multi-story, “God
dialog: please kill me” office building.
scene_heading: INT. VALID INSURANCE - FIRST FLOOR - DAY
text: An endless sea of cubicles filled with people doing
dialog: things and saying things we couldn’t care less about.
text: Jim makes his way to Cubicle 18-C and takes a seat.
text: He opens his top drawer and pulls out a lottery
text: ticket. Checks the numbers against the results in
dialog: the newspaper...
text: Jim sighs. No luck.
text: As he settles in and puts on his headset, a familiar
text: scent catches his attention.
speaker_heading: JIM’S P.O.V.
text: as OLIVIA - curvy, gorgeous, wafting sensuality -
text: glides up the stairs to the SECOND TIER.
dialog: Her ass is fucking perfect. Seriously. Her ass is
dialog: actually perfect and there’s nothing Jim can do about
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: JILL (0.S.)
dialog: Six years later and you’re still
dialog: infatuated...
text: Jim turns...
text: IN THE CUBICLE DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO HIS --
text: JILL SUMMERS (early 30’s) - hip, chunky, vibrant,
text: ballsy - sits with her feet on her desk and an
text: unplugged electric guitar in her lap.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You really wanna start?
text: She motions for him to hold on.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: Yes, ma’am, I understand...
text: She mouths to Jim, “I don’t understand.”
speaker_heading: JILL (CONT'D)
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: Yes, ma’am, I understand.
text: Jill mutes the headset.
speaker_heading: JILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Forty three seconds till the coffee
dialog: rush. Hold my spot if you beat me?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I always beat you.
text: Jill un-mutes the headset.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: Can you hold while I look up your
dialog: policy? Thank you.
text: Jill punches the hold button and takes off.
text: Jim is about to follow, but...
text: He’s interrupted by an annoying BUZZING from his desk
dialog: phone.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER (0.S.)
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: Jim, I’ve got a woman on line nine--
dialog: she just...she won’t fucking listen
dialog: to reason. Any chance you can help
dialog: me out here?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Not a problem.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER (0.S.)
dialog: Thanks, man. I appreciate it.
text: Jim punches a button, unleashing the Kraken.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: Valid Insurance, Jim Simmers
dialog: speaking. How may I be of ass--
text: The woman on the other end immediately launches into
text: a hysterical tirade. Her words are indecipherable,
text: but her rage is unmistakable.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Okay, slow down a minute. Does the
dialog: letter indicate the reason for the
dialog: termination of your policy?
text: Her response is another forty-five second burst of
text: insane chattering.
scene_heading: INT. COPY ROOM - FIFTEEN MINUTES LATER
text: A bored CO-WORKER stands over the open copy machine
text: hitting the “start” button over and over, seemingly
text: hypnotized by the moving light.
text: Jim approaches with a stack of papers, still dealing
text: with the customer. Jim covers the microphone on his
text: headset.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (to Bored Co-Worker)
dialog: Uh, you mind?
text: The Bored Co-Worker snaps out of his trance, and
dialog: steps aside.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: I agree with you, ma’am. Now if
dialog: you would just give me your policy
dialog: number, I can--
text: Jim runs off copies while the woman runs her mouth.
scene_heading: INT. FILE ROOM - FIFTEEN MINUTES LATER
text: Two lazy co-workers, SCHOOLEY and McCORKLE, stand
text: around gossiping.
speaker_heading: MCCORKLE
dialog: .»+.So I got three fingers in,
dialog: right? And the chick leans right
text: into my ear and says, “more”, and
dialog: I’m like, “honey, any more and I’m
dialog: not gonna be able to drive the
dialog: van"...
text: His buddy laughs. Their moment of bullshitting is
text: interrupted when Jim approaches. His headset is
text: still buzzing with the irked customer.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: Ma’am can you hold on a second?
dialog: (to Schooley and McCorkle)
dialog: Uh, guys, I’ve gotta get in there.
text: The two slackers shoot him a dismissive look and walk
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: SCHOOLEY
dialog: Whatever you say, Captain Overtime.
text: As Jim searches through the files...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Ma’‘am, I really want to help but...
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER
text: Jim gets in line at the coffee maker. JILL already
text: has her coffee and Jim doesn’t and that’s funny to
text: her. She smirks.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Sucker.
text: He points to his headset, manages a sheepish smile.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: I understand that it runs in your
dialog: family, however, your child does
dialog: weigh in excess of four hundred
dialog: pounds so--
text: Jim has to pull the headset away when the woman
text: screeches at him.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Dude, hang up. Life’s too short.
dialog: But Jim is committed. Plus he’s next in line for
text: coffee, right behind...
text: BLAKE HENDERSON, 29 (but says he’s 27), an
dialog: overconfident, overachieving dick. The kind of guy
text: who has a big ass coffee cup that says “BIG ASS CUP”
text: on the side.
text: Jim watches in horror as Blake dumps his lukewarm
text: coffee into the sink and pours the last of the fresh
text: coffee into his “big cup.” He shakes the pot to
text: ensure that he’s literally taken every last drop.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
text: (gun-points at Jim and says...)
dialog: Fuck right, I did.
text: Blake struts off leaving Jim with an empty pot and an
text: angry customer.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (into headset, exasperated)
dialog: Please, please, please, just tell
dialog: me what I can do to make this--
text: CLICK. Jim snatches the fucking headset off his
dialog: fucking head.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Fuck.
text: He catches Jill smirking from across the room.
text: Jim sighs and starts on a new pot. He sorts through
dialog: the various brands of shit.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No Starbucks?
text: In the trash lay the last empty bag of Starbucks.
dialog: Jim holds up seven brands of crap: Maxwell House,
dialog: Folgers, Munter’s Brown Roast, etc.
scene_heading: VOICE OVER LOUD SPEAKER (0.S)
dialog: Jim Simmers, please report to Mr.
text: Whiteman’s office.
text: He hurriedly selects the bag of Munter’s Brown®,
text: starts the maker on “quick brew”.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Why don’t you just grab a cup up on
dialog: the second tier?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: It doesn’t work like that, Jill.
dialog: Just because Mr. Whiteman called me
dialog: to his office doesn’t mean I have
dialog: second tier privileges.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Dude. The White Man’s not calling
dialog: you up there to chit-chat, he’s
dialog: calling you up to promote. And
dialog: you’re the most promotable guy I
dialog: know.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I don’t know about the most
dialog: promotable, but I’ve definitely
dialog: done the work.
text: The coffee brews oh so slowly. Excruciating. Jim
text: checks his watch...
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: You’ve got it coming, Jim. Don’t
dialog: worry.
text: The coffee machine CHIRPS. But now Jim wants to
dialog: ensure that he has the “right” cup. Each time he
text: picks one up, he puts it back, choosing another.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (intense)
dialog: I feel like this has to happen, you
dialog: know? I feel like I’ve done
dialog: everything that I’m supposed to do
dialog: and I’ve waited as long as I
dialog: possibly can...it has to happen
dialog: today.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Easy, turbo...
text: Finally Jill grabs a cup for Jim and pours.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: It’s just a promotion--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: It’s a career, Jill. It’s a job
dialog: now, but it becomes a career by the
dialog: end of the day. It has to.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Right. Or I’m sure you'll kill
dialog: everyone here.
text: She punches him playfully in the arm and walks away.
text: Jim steels himself, takes a sip of his coffee...
dialog: disgusting. Pours it out.
scene_heading: INT. MR. WHITEMAN’S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER
text: Mr. Whiteman sits behind his desk, a serious look
text: etched upon his serious face. Jim enters, ebullient.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: (somber )
dialog: Jim...
text: It’s all there...in that one word. His face drops.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: This wasn’t easy...
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No.
text: Blake enters smugly, sipping Starbucks from his Big
dialog: Ass Cup.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Look, we deliberated for a long
dialog: time. It was torturous. You guys
dialog: were both eminently qualified.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Then why? Honestly, why?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Don’t do it to yourself, Jim.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: He’s right. Accept it, Jim
text: Simmers, because this is how it is.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No offense to Blake, but I’ve been
dialog: here longer, my output is higher, I
dialog: work harder than anyone I know.
dialog: This doesn’t make any sense. Tell
dialog: me why?
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Jim, what so many people on Earth
dialog: don’t understand...
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: ...-don’t even fathom...
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: -..is that so much of life is based
dialog: on popularity.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Are you kidding?
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: No. Blake is more popular than
dialog: you, and I think that counts for
dialog: something.
text: Silence. Jim gnaws on his lip. Mr. Whiteman notices
text: Jim’s hand clenching.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I need to leave early today.
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: I think that’s a good idea.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Yeah. I just need you to do one
dialog: little thing before you leave.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S CUBICLE - DAY
text: Blake plops a big ass stack of files on Jim’s desk.
text: He gives Jim the gun point and walks off.
scene_heading: EXT. CORDDRY HOUSE - EVENING
text: Jim pulls up and approaches the most perfect house in
dialog: this perfect neighborhood.
text: We HEAR birds CHIRPING, sprinklers SPRINKLING...and
text: the SOUNDS of a violent struggle inside. Jim knocks.
scene_heading: INT. CORDDRY HOUSE - EVENING
text: REBECCA CORDDRY (36), a sweet-faced, dainty buttercup
dialog: answers.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: Jim!
text: Rebecca is the spitting image of a 1950's housewife.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Hey, Becca. Is Rob...
text: Horrible SCREAMS emanate from inside the home.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: (re: the sounds)
dialog: Well, I guess he is home.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: Come on in.
scene_heading: INT. CORDDRY LIVING ROOM - EVENING
text: A perfect little suburban living room. Jim sits on
text: the couch. Rebecca sits across from him.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: He’1l be with you in a minute, he’s
text: just putting Junior down.
dialog: 13.
text: THE HALLWAY that connects to this living room is
text: alive with the SOUNDS of SOME HORRIBLE FIGHT. Jim
text: looks, sees nothing.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: So, how’ve you been?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Eh. It’s all been kind of “eh”
dialog: lately.
text: Then we see it, at the end of the hallway...
text: ROB CORDDRY, five foot six, 152 pounds of wiry
text: persistence, clamps a choke hold around the neck of
text: his stepson JUNIOR, 14, a massive construct of rage
dialog: and retardation.
text: The fight SLAMS them out of view.
speaker_heading: JIM AND REBECCA
text: continue with their small talk.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: So...I bet you’re glad to have Rob
dialog: home.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: I am. Whenever he's gone, Junior
dialog: and I count the days until the off
dialog: season.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I bet.
dialog: Not much to talk about.
scene_heading: DOWN THE HALL
text: Junior charges out backwards slamming Rob into a wall
text: until further rewrites.
scene_heading: JIM GRINS AT REBECCA
text: They struggle for a topic.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: So...do you guys have plans for
dialog: while he’s home?
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: He’s just back, so we haven't
dialog: really made any plans.
dialog: (taps Jim's leg)
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: REBECCA (CONT'D)
dialog: I know he can’t wait to go out with
dialog: the guys though.
text: Jim sighs.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Yep. The guys out on the Cod.
dialog: From deep within the bowels of this home we hear...
speaker_heading: ROB (0.S.)
text: AAHH! OH FUCK MY GOD! FUCK MY GOD!
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: You know what, maybe you oughta go
text: on back and give him a hand.
text: Jim stands. Rebecca hands him a baseball bat.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BEACHCOMBER BAR - NIGHT
text: A local dive with a tropical theme. Rob has bandages
text: over his eye, the pain in his damaged sternum is
text: excruciating as he tries to sit.
text: Rob pounds the bar, tears welling in his eyes.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Oh, motherfuck!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (concerned)
dialog: He’s really gotten big, Rob.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: AHHH! He’s--OH FUCK!
text: Rob is in so much pain he has to smash a glass on the
dialog: floor.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: I’ve gotta stand. I can’t sit,
dialog: man.
dialog: (takes a breath)
dialog: Yeah, the boy’s gotten big. Each
dialog: time I come home, it’s like he’s
text: grown another three inches.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Uh, doesn’t that kinda...scare you?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: No, the doctor said his rage will
text: wain as he gets older.
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: ROB (CONT'D)
dialog: Really, my main concern is the
text: weight set that Becca bought him.
dialog: I swear, it’s like he’s training,
dialog: you know. I mean, he broke my
dialog: choke-hold three times before I
dialog: could lock it in.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: He’s probably watching those
dialog: ultimate fights or something.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: (all sentimental)
dialog: I’m away so much, it just kills me.
dialog: I mean, I’m sure deep down he’s a
dialog: good kid...and Rebecca’s such a
dialog: great mom with such a great vagina
dialog: it’s like, I wish I could put them
dialog: in a time capsule when I’m away.
text: Then, Rob looks at Jim, suddenly and deeply worried
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Do you think he’s training, Jim?
dialog: Do you think he’s training to kill
dialog: me?
text: Jim ponders the question: is the retarded boy
dialog: training to kill his stepfather?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Nah. I mean, you’ve only been his
dialog: stepdad for what, five years?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Six.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Okay, six. The point is, these
dialog: things take time. He’1ll come
dialog: around.
speaker_heading: nob! LARRY (0.S.)
dialog: ob!
text: Jim and Rob turn to see LARRY WILLS, 40's, decked out
text: in a tank-top, flip flops and lifeguard shorts. He's
text: a beach parking lot attendant by day and thieving
text: playboy by day, too.
text: Larry is escorted by a MILF who hasn’t yet learned
text: that she’s being taken advantage of.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Welcome home, man.
dialog: 16.
text: Larry moves in to hug Rob. Rob retreats.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Ahh...the boy’s gotten bigger, huh?
dialog: (to the MILF)
dialog: Hon’.
text: She digs up a twenty from her purse.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Babe, Rob’s been gone for four
dialog: months fishing and shit.
text: Beat. She reluctantly hands him her credit card.
text: Takes a seat.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (eyebrows raised)
dialog: We've talked about this.
text: She storms off, pissed. Larry focuses on the guys.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I mean, I hate to be rude but,
dialog: Jesus, bitch...
dialog: (waves the MILF’s credit card)
dialog: Drinks on me.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: (re: another MILF)
dialog: Hey, isn’t that that married woman
dialog: you hooked up with last time I was
dialog: here?
text: ANOTHER CUTE MILF ACROSS THE BAR stares at Larry.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Hmm, I don’t remember.
text: He waves. She waves. He motions at his cock, ‘you
dialog: want this?’ She waves. He motions again, ‘you want
text: this?’ She waves. He stands and yells...
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You want this?! Huh?
text: His boys shake their heads, ‘good ole Larry.’
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (to the guys)
dialog: I don’t even care, man. I‘11l do
dialog: it. I’1l do it cuz I’m totally
dialog: hard.
text: He has a full on, blasting erection tightening his
text: lifeguard shorts.
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Christ man, put that away before
dialog: you get somebody pregnant.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You better watch out, man, or it‘1l
dialog: be you.
dialog: (to the irked Waitress standing
dialog: right there)
text: Six shots and keep ‘em coming.
dialog: (the Waitress doesn’t move)
dialog: What? You want some of this? Huh?
dialog: Now she moves. And now we know Larry Wills.
scene_heading: INT. BAR - AN HOUR LATER
text: The guys are loosened up with liquor. The drinks
dialog: keep coming.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Ten years with this company and I’m
text: still stuck on tier one, with
dialog: crappy coffee and stupid customers.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Don’t sweat it, man, they’1ll get
dialog: you the next time.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Easy for you to say, your life is
dialog: set.
speaker_heading: LARRY
text: No one’s life is set, Jim.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No, seriously. Rob’s got the
dialog: family set up, Larry, you've got
dialog: all those women and the monster
dialog: cock...I mean what the fuck?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Your problem, Jim, and I don’t
dialog: wanna make it sound like I’m
dialog: judging you, but even if you hada
dialog: cock half the size of mine, you'd
dialog: probably still want mine cuz it’s
dialog: so fucking big.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You don’t understand, I’ve done
dialog: everything right.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve followed every rule, I've
dialog: worked my ass off, yet I’m almost
dialog: forty years old with no girlfriend,
dialog: no money, and a medium-sized cock
dialog: at best.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You've got more money than me, Bro.
scene_heading: AT THE FRONT DOOR
text: Jim’s co-workers, Blake, Olivia, Jill, and Blah-blah
text: enter. Jill sees Jim and detaches from Blake’s crew.
speaker_heading: AT THE BAR
text: Jill joins the guys.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Gimme some of that, Jill.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Don’t give me the sweet talk,
dialog: twelve inch, I know you’re a piece
dialog: of shit inside.
text: She gives him a peck on the cheek. Breaks out a BOX
text: OF CIGARS with a bow on it.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: I got these to celebrate your
dialog: promotion, but...you know...
text: She hands out cigars.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Yeah, well there’s no point in
dialog: smoking them now.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: You've gotta be kidding. These are
dialog: Cubans.
text: She waves a cigar under his nose.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Just because you didn’t get the
dialog: promotion, doesn’t mean these
dialog: cigars are any less enjoyable.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: ...or less illegal.
text: Jim hands the cigar back to her.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Might as well give mine to him...
dialog: 19.
text: He points to Blake, who is sitting across the room
text: with Olivia glomming all over him.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: No matter how long you stare at
dialog: that perfect ass, she’s always
dialog: gonna be wrong for you.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: She’s right. What you need is
dialog: that.
text: Rob points at a SLIGHTLY DUMPY CHICK across the bar.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No thanks.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Ha! I fucked her. I pushed her
text: stomach right into her forehead.
text: The WAITRESS arrives. Hands Jim a bill.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Blake said this round is on you,
text: something about congratulating him.
text: Jim looks over and Blake gives Jim the gunpoint.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: First of all, I don’t congratulate
dialog: him. Second of all, it’s not even
dialog: my card.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Damn right, that’s my chick’s money
dialog: we're spending. Send it back.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Fine, I'll do it. But Blake’s
dialog: gonna be pissed.
text: As she moves to leave...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Wait.
text: Jim hands her his credit card.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: You are such a flounder.
text: Jill pinches the Waitress’s butt, they walk away
dialog: talking.
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’m not a flounder. It’s the right
dialog: move, right guys?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Let me ask you this, are you gonna
dialog: be bitching about it next week?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What am I supposed to do? It’s
dialog: over, he won.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: If you accept it, then it’s over.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: So, what? I do what exactly?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You take that bitch by the love
dialog: handles and fuck the cash out of
dialog: her.
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: Fuck you guys, it’s a metaphor.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Mongo’s right. He’s fucked up, but
dialog: he’s right. You gotta march right
dialog: into that White Man’s office and
dialog: demand your promotion.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Yeah! You earned that shit, and
dialog: shit.
text: Jim looks at Blake. Blake has it all. And doesn’t
text: deserve any of it. Jim knocks back his shot.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You know what? You guys are right,
dialog: you're absolutely right. That
dialog: promotion is mine!
text: He pounds the bar in emphasis.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Fuck Blake and fuck The White Man.
dialog: Tomorrow I’m gonna march into that
dialog: office and take what’s mine!
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BEDROOM - MORNING
text: The dog barks, Jim awakens with kick-ass in his eyes.
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Eight motherfucking raspberries.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING
text: Jim reads his morning affirmation with extra special
dialog: sauce.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (into mirror)
dialog: You can have it all, Jim Simmers.
dialog: But he can’t.
scene_heading: EXT. JIM’S APARTMENT - MORNING
text: The four-legged cocksucker rushes Jim, but Jim beats
dialog: him to the car. Victory!
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
text: (calling out as Jim drives off)
dialog: Sorry!
scene_heading: EXT. MID CAPE HIGHWAY - MORNING
text: Jim waits for the signal while others don’t. For a
text: split-second, he looks around as if he might...
dialog: Nope.
scene_heading: EXT. CONVENIENCE STORE - SIDEWALK - DAY
text: An insane BLACK HOBO rants. He’s the only black
text: person on Cape Cod. Above him TWO MUNICIPAL WORKERS
dialog: fuck around with a power line.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: This Earth is not fit for man!
dialog: Only in the afterlife can one find
dialog: truth and justice. Come all ye
text: faithful, joyful and triumphant,
dialog: join me! Let go of this Earth and
dialog: join me...
text: The Black Hobo pulls out a toy pistol and puts it to
text: his head. He sees Jim pull up in his Sporty Kia
text: Spectrum (with racing stripe). Jim gets out and
text: heads toward the store.
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: You! Dolemite! Join me!
text: Jim speeds up but the bum rushes him.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: Join me and I will complete your
dialog: training. With our combined
dialog: strength we can end this
dialog: destructive conflict and bring
dialog: order to the galaxy.
dialog: (suddenly lucid)
dialog: I know why you’re unhappy.
text: Jim stops.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: This is not your Earth. You can
dialog: never find justice here amongst the
dialog: wicked, but fear not. The
dialog: afterlife awaits you. True heaven.
dialog: True joy.
text: Jim stares at the magical Negro and senses truth in
text: his words. This is what he’s been waiting to hear.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
text: The big payoff is coming.
speaker_heading: KRRZZZAAPP!
scene_heading: ABOVE THEM --
text: The Municipal Workers rear back, trying to avoid a
text: severed, flailing power line.
text: But Jim is too riveted by the Hobo to notice the
text: wire. Or the puddle of water he’s standing in.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: (with zealotous zeal)
dialog: The big payoff is coming and--
dialog: (suddenly terrified)
dialog: OH, SHIT MUTHAFUCKA!
text: The Bum jumps back as the wire makes contact with the
text: water and fries Jim alive.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: AN EMPTY VOID - POST DEATH
text: Jim stands in space. Nothing above him, nothing
text: around him.
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Where am I?
dialog: (realizes)
dialog: Oh, my God. The black bum was
dialog: right.
text: Jim smiles in a way we’ve not seen before. True joy.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Come. Come take me...
text: Jim falls to his knees, arms beckoning upward like
dialog: Shawshank Redemption.
dialog: Long beat.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’m ready, um, Lord, or whoever.
dialog: Hook me up.
text: Jim looks out, still Shawshanked...absolutely
dialog: nothing.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Come!
speaker_heading: BEHIND JIM --
text: A magnificent tunnel of light opens up, beckoning...
text: But Jim is still looking forward, clueless as always.
text: He stands.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Really?
text: The light behind him grows even more magnificent’er.
dialog: If only he’d just turn around...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No?
dialog: (then)
dialog: I don’t even get this? Seriously!
dialog: No pearly gates? I’ve waited for
dialog: so Goddamn long...I mean, I’m not
dialog: damning you, but come on!
text: EVERYTHING SUDDENLY GOES BLACK.
scene_heading: EXT. CONVENIENCE STORE - SIDEWALK - CONTINUOUS
text: Jim explodes into consciousness. The Black Hobo is
text: pounding on his chest.
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: Don’t you die on me, man. You’ve
dialog: never backed away from a fight in
dialog: your life!
text: Jim tries to push the Bum off. A COP CAR PULLS UP.
text: The Black Hobo punctuates each word with a head slap.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: Say you, say me! SAY YOU, SAY ME!
text: The COPS rush the bum. They snatch him away. Jim
text: stands up. Groggy. The bum breaks free and does a
text: flying kick into Jim’s chest.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: Don’t die on me!
text: The Cops pin the bum down. Handcuff him.
text: One of the COPS steps to Jim.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Are you okay, sir?
text: Jim looks down. His feet are smoldering. His mind
text: reeling.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No.
dialog: (looks up to heaven)
dialog: I’m really, really disappointed.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S LIVING ROOM - TIME LAPSE
text: Jim lays on the couch submerged in a bout of
text: existential depression. OUTSIDE HIS WINDOW the sun
text: goes up and down as the world turns. Days pass, Jim
text: doesn’t move, half asleep, half awake.
text: Finally, he sits up.
speaker_heading: REAL TIME:
text: Jim picks up the remote with a sigh. Turns on the
dialog: TV.
text: THE TELEVISION is suddenly alive with Tom Cruise.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (from “Mission: Impossible”)
dialog: Jim?
text: The image JUMPS forward to an anguished close-up.
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: Why, Jim? Why?
text: That’s weird. Jim switches the channel. Low and
dialog: behold...
text: THE TELEVISION offers more Tom Cruise on this
dialog: channel.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (from “Jerry Maguire”)
dialog: Help me. Help me help you. Help
dialog: me help you!
text: Jim switches the channel. And again...
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (from “All The Right Moves”)
dialog: Doesn’t this seem just a little bit
dialog: too crazy?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Yes. Yes, it does.
text: Jim changes the channel.
text: THE TELEVISION won’t stop. It’s like Tom Cruise is
text: speaking directly to Jim.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (from “The Color of Money”)
dialog: It’s like a nightmare, isn’t it?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: This is nuts.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: Man, it just keeps getting worse
dialog: and worse, doesn’t it?
text: Jim hits the remote. And there he is again, in tight
text: close-up.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (from “Days of Thunder”)
dialog: When I’m driving, I got a guy on
dialog: the radio who talks to me. I can’t
dialog: see him but he talks to me.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: So what’s your point?
text: The image FREEZES. Jim changes the channel.
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (from “Cocktail”)
dialog: What does it mean? NOTHING!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: That much I figured out on my own.
dialog: Click.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (from “Magnolia” )
dialog: In this big game that we play -
dialog: LIFE - it’s not what you hope for,
dialog: it’s not what you deserve...it’s
dialog: what you TAKE!
text: The image FREEZES. Jim stares for a long moment,
text: trying to process the universe’s code. He hits the
dialog: remote one last time...
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (from “Risky Business”)
dialog: Sometimes you just gotta say what
dialog: the fuck. Make your move.
text: The television’s holy glow takes us to...
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S LIVING ROOM - NEXT MORNING
text: SUNLIGHT. The barking dog wakes Jim. He gets up.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - MORNING
text: He pulls out his penis with his hand and steadies it to
text: shoot pee out of the tip. It’s a magnificent stream,
text: powerful after days of build up.
text: When droplets hit the seat, Jim ignores them and
text: moves on.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Jim pulls out his cereal, his juice, his raspberries
text: and his fiber additives. He looks at his boring
text: breakfast, turns to the freezer and grabs a vat of
dialog: ice cream...
text: Jim spoons it from the carton as he walks out.
dialog: 27.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S LIVING ROOM - MORNING
text: He stands before the mirror, shoveling ice cream into
text: his maw at an alarming rate. He stares at his
text: reflection for a long moment.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What’s the point?
text: Jim tosses the half empty carton of ice cream over
text: his shoulder and moves on.
scene_heading: EXT. JIM’S HOUSE - MORNING
text: Jim exits the house lethargically, dragging his
text: backpack behind him. Within seconds, that asshole
text: dog is upon Jim, snarling and barking like the
dialog: asshole he is.
text: Jim doesn't slow, doesn’t acknowledge the dog in any
text: way. Just proceeds to his sporty KIA (with racing
text: stripe) and climbs in.
speaker_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR (0.S.)
dialog: Come back here, Hoagster! Bad
dialog: Hoagie! That’s a bad Hoagie.
text: The dog continues to snap and snarl as Jim cranks
text: “THE REFLEX” and pulls away.
scene_heading: EXT. STOPLIGHT - MORNING
text: Same scene, different day. Jim’s sporty KIA slows to
text: a stop. “THE REFLEX” continues to blare even as a
text: carload of judgemental TEENS pulls up beside him.
text: They laugh at Jim. They laugh at his gay music.
text: Some even point at him while they do it. Teens can
dialog: be so cruel. So cruel.
text: But it doesn’t affect Jim in the least. And he’s
dialog: done waiting at this stupid light.
text: He steps on the accelerator and zooms away.
scene_heading: INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - MORNING
text: The Cute Clerk babbles away on the phone as Jim makes
text: his way to the magazine rack. Grabs himself a copy
text: of LOOSE & JUICY magazine and proceeds to the
dialog: counter.
dialog: 28.
text: The clerk sees Jim, punches some buttons on the Lotto
text: machine. Jim shakes his head, ‘no.’
text: Opens the magazine to the centerfold and holds it up.
text: The clerk is horrified.
text: Jim tosses some bills on the counter and leaves.
scene_heading: EXT. VALID INSURANCE COMPANY - PARKING LOT - MORNING
text: Workers gather around as Blake shows off the brand
text: new BMW M-3 that he bought with his promotion bonus.
text: Olivia is particularly impressed.
text: As Jim walks by, disgusted, Blake winks and shoots
text: him the gunpoint.
scene_heading: INT. VALID INSURANCE COMPANY - MORNING
text: Jim chucks his backpack into his cubicle as he heads
dialog: for the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
text: He pauses when he sees people crowded around the
text: broken coffee machine. Drops his head exasperated,
dialog: then...
text: Looks up to the empty coffee room on the second tier.
dialog: Decides.
scene_heading: STAIRWAY TO THE SECOND TIER - CONTINUOUS
text: As Jim ascends the stairs, his CO-WORKERS gawk.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKERS
dialog: (fearful)
dialog: What’s he doing? / He’s crazy!
text: Jill rushes over to stop him but freezes at the first
text: step. She doesn’t dare set foot on it.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: (looking up at Jim)
dialog: Jim, come back! You can’t go up
dialog: there!
text: But Jim keeps going.
dialog: 29.
scene_heading: INT. COFFEE ROOM - SECOND TIER - CONTINUOUS
text: Olivia stands alone, shocked to see...
text: Jim walking right toward her. He takes the creamer
text: out of her hand, then grabs the entire pot of coffee
text: and walks out.
text: Olivia squints, piqued by Jim’s robust flavor.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - FIRST TIER - MOMENTS LATER
text: Jim pours a cup, adds his cream, and leaves the
text: gourmet coffee for the rest of his co-workers.
text: They gather around the pot, sniffing it like wine.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER
text: Smell the aroma.
text: Jill pours a small sip. Swirls it around in her
dialog: mouff.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Oh, my God...no clumps.
scene_heading: CO-WORKER 2: THE SPAWNING
dialog: And it doesn’t taste like mud.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S CUBICLE - MORNING
text: Jim has his headset on, leaned all the way back in his
text: chair, talking to a customer...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (into headset; flat, emotionless)
dialog: I’m trying to help you, ma’am but
dialog: you’ve got to answer the question,
dialog: okay? How fat are your kids?
text: While the person on the line yells Jim twirls his
text: chair, waiting for his turn to speak.
text: He notices Jill in her cubicle, talking to a customer
text: on the phone as she applies the final touches to a
dialog: pencil sketch.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yes, sir, I’m checking for you
dialog: right now.
text: She holds it up for Jim to see.
dialog: 30.
text: ANGLE ON THE DRAWING
text: revealing a realistic rendering of Jim joyfully
text: feeding Blake into a meat grinder.
speaker_heading: JIM
text: spins away in his chair, offering no reaction.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: ..-Ma’am...okay, sorry, sir. Sir,
dialog: I understand, but “husky” isn’t a
dialog: medical diagnosis.
text: Jill sighs, breaks out her eraser and changes the
text: smile on drawn Jim’s face to a frown.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I need a number... What do I mean?
dialog: Like combined do your twins weigh
dialog: more than your car?...Offended?
dialog: Sorry. Please, just give me a
dialog: number...
text: (almost falls out of his chair when
dialog: he hears the number)
dialog: You're fucking kidding me. How
dialog: much?
dialog: (awed
dialog: Are they like, seven feet tall?
dialog: No?
dialog: (punches his keyboard)
dialog: Well, I’m looking at the actuarial
dialog: table now and unless your twins are
dialog: LeBron James and Shaquille O'Neal,
dialog: they ain’t gonna qualify.
dialog: (interrupts the customer’s rant)
dialog: Hold on--hold on--hold on, I just
dialog: gotta ask this. I mean, there’s no
dialog: way on earth any reputable firm is
dialog: gonna insure those orcas of yours,
dialog: but I feel the need to ask to
dialog: satisfy my own curiosity. Why’d
dialog: you ever marry a fat chick?
text: Click. Jim takes off the headset. Leans forward,
text: despondent. His phone rings incessantly.
speaker_heading: BLAKE (0.S.)
dialog: (behind him)
dialog: Hard day, huh?
text: Jim looks up. Blake drops a load of files on his
dialog: desk.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Make these a priority.
text: WE STAY WITH BLAKE
text: as he struts through the office, finger pointing and
text: being obnoxious. He slaps Jill’s ass then takes a
text: donut out of CO-WORKER 2: THE SPAWNING’S petite hand.
text: After one bite, Blake tosses the donut and heads
dialog: upstairs.
scene_heading: BLAKE’S OFFICE - SECOND TIER - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake enters and is shocked to see...
text: Jim standing there with the files.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Um...
text: Jim holds out the files and drop kicks them...papers
text: fly all over the room. Jim gives Blake the
dialog: gunpoint...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Fuck yeah I did.
text: ...and walks out.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH HOUSE - DUSK
text: Beautiful. Right on the water. The sound of
text: heterosexual sex emanates from inside.
scene_heading: INT. BEACH HOUSE - BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: Everything about this place says “old money”,
text: including the old money lady, MAUREEN, being pounded
text: from behind by Larry.
text: Larry’s face is curled in disgust, tears streaming
text: down his cheeks.
dialog: And yes, he does indeed have a clothespin on his
dialog: nose.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: (near climax)
dialog: Oh, yes! Oh YESSS!!! Fucky me
dialog: Lenny! Fucky me like you need a
dialog: job!
dialog: 32.
text: Larry punches a pillow in olfactory agony. Without
text: warning, A MAN appears in the doorway.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Shit!
text: Larry pulls out, grabs the lamp from the night stand
text: defensively. Maureen stays right where she is.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Jim? Is that you?
dialog: Yep. It’s Jim.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I need to talk to you, Larry. Now.
text: Larry is torn. Money on the bed, friend in crisis.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Seriously, I need to talk.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: That’s it. Mood ruined.
text: She grabs a robe and heads to the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. BEACH HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: While Jim talks, Larry steals. He rifles through
text: drawers and jackets.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I think I’m having a meltdown,
dialog: Larry.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Watch for Maureen.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I died--I saw the other side and
dialog: there’s nothing.
text: Larry holds up a diamond watch.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (re: the watch)
dialog: Too personal? Yeah.
dialog: (sets it back down)
dialog: Is the shower still running?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Are you paying attention, man?
dialog: 33.
text: Larry notices a big ass change jar and starts
text: stuffing his pockets. He freezes when Maureen
text: enters, wearing only a towel.
text: An awkward beat. Errant coins slip from his fists.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Um, Jim, can we deal with your
dialog: meltdown later?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Are you joking? All the times I’ve
dialog: picked you up when you were drunk,
dialog: or bailed you out of jail? You
dialog: can’t listen to me for five goddamn
dialog: minutes?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: I’m kinda working here, Jim.
text: Jim throws Larry against the wall and digs through
text: his pockets. Pulls out a pirate’s booty.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You’re not working. Why don’t you
dialog: just tell her instead of stealing!
dialog: Man-up and sell your cock with some
dialog: respect.
text: Maureen isn’t even slightly phased.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: What? You think his stealing is
dialog: news to me? I leave this crap out
dialog: on purpose.
dialog: (slaps Larry’s ass)
dialog: Go ahead. I’11 take a rain check.
text: Larry nonchalantly pockets the watch. Jim just
text: shakes his head.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S CAR - LATER
text: Jim drives aggressively. Larry leans over to check
text: the speedometer.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Did you really die and shit?
text: Jim grabs one of his melted shoes from the back seat,
text: drops it into Larry’s lap.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What do you think?
dialog: 34.
text: Larry stares at the shoe.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: These cost like ninety--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: That’s not the point!
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: The point is: there is no point.
dialog: There’s nothing, man. Some people
dialog: have it all, and some people have
dialog: shit.
text: He pulls up to Rob’s house.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I have shit.
scene_heading: INT. ROB’S GARAGE - DAY
text: Rob is in his garage cleaning dried blood off of his
text: hooks and spiked clubs. Larry and Jim enter.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Whoa! That’s sick!
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: (proud)
dialog: Yeah, I designed it for the new
dialog: guys on the job. Nothing worse
text: than seeing some noob half-spiking
text: his club in a wounded harp seal’s
text: head without making the kill shot.
dialog: It’s almost cruel.
text: Larry notices an instructional poster on the wall
dialog: detailing the proper way to kill baby seals.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I don’t know how you do it, Rob.
dialog: How can you look into that cute
dialog: little face and smash it. How do
dialog: you smash their adorable little
dialog: faces off?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Hey, I’ve gotta support my family.
dialog: And you know what, it’s racist
dialog: against cows to care about harp
dialog: seals.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (vexed by that fucked up sentence)
dialog: WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU TALKING
speaker_heading: ABOUT?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Cows are thinking creatures too,
dialog: but no one minds killing them. Why
dialog: are harp seals so special?
dialog: (off the guys’ faces)
dialog: Cows make great pets and they’re
dialog: very protective unlike harp seals
dialog: that have a horrible side no one
dialog: ever sees.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: Come on, Rob. Don’t try to justify
dialog: your murder by player hating on
dialog: harp seals. They don’t hurt anyone
dialog: and shit, you do!
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: You're out of your element, short
dialog: bus! You wouldn’t believe what
dialog: I’ve seen those creatures do. I’ve
dialog: seen that white fur covered in
dialog: blood...and not always their own.
text: Before it can turn into an argument, Jim jumps in.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Enough!
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No more fighting about baby harp
dialog: seals. You guys don’t seem to
dialog: understand, there’s no God, there’s
dialog: no heaven, there’s nothing! All we
dialog: get is this! And for me, this--
dialog: this whole thing--everything...it’s
dialog: been a waste!
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: What’s going on?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: He died and now he’s getting all--
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: What do you mean he died.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I was electrocuted. I saw the
dialog: other side and there. Was. Nothing!
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Um...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Look, these rules that we live by,
dialog: they’re meaningless. Why not grab
dialog: a woman by her tit and tell her you
dialog: want to fuck her?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I do it all the--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Shut up, Larry. Why have any
dialog: restraint at all? Why not do
dialog: whatever you fucking want, whenever
dialog: the fuck you want, cuz ultimately
dialog: it doesn’t matter at all...THERE’S
text: NO FUCKING PAYOFF...TO ANY OF IT!
text: MONSTROUS GROANS rumble from inside the house. Rob
text: instinctively tightens his grip on the club.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: (staring at the walls)
dialog: You're scaring Junior.
dialog: (then)
dialog: You need to calm down...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: No. Fuck no. I don’t need to calm
dialog: down. I have spent my entire life
dialog: “calming down.” From here on out,
dialog: I’m getting what I want.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Um, what is it? What do you want?
text: Jim grabs a sharpie and writes on the wall...
dialog: 1. . That jes.”
dialog: 2. "That car”
dialog: 3. “That chick”
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (as he writes)
dialog: I want that promotion. I want that
dialog: Beamer that Blake bought with that
dialog: promotion. And you know what? I
dialog: wanna fuck Olivia. I wanna fuck
dialog: her in the ass.
text: The guys are quiet, mesmerized by Jim’s new outlook.
text: Just then, Rebecca enters with a plate of fresh baked
text: cookies...and two black eyes.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: (sing-songy)
dialog: Who wants cookiiieees?
text: Larry reaches for one, burns his hand...too hot.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: And I want those.
text: Jim grabs a handful of cookies.
speaker_heading: JIM
speaker_heading: ARGHH!
dialog: Melty chocolate that would normally be delicious
text: scalds Jim’s hands. But he pounds them down,
text: disintegrating his mouth with abandon.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Oh, god!
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Dude, wait till they cool--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Fuck that...ARRG!
text: Jim eats damn near every one, his face clenched in
dialog: agony.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: Maybe you could leave this last one
dialog: for somebody else.
text: Jim snatches the last cookie off the plate and
text: belligerently smashes it all over his face before he
dialog: eats it.
scene_heading: INT. VALID INSURANCE COMPANY - NIGHT
text: The office is dark, shut down, except for one room.
dialog: 38.
scene_heading: INT. FILE ROOM - NIGHT
text: Jim holds a list, picking through the infinite rows
text: of files. He drops the ones that match into a basket.
text: Jill enters.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: This better be good, you calling me
dialog: in here at midnight.
text: He hands her the basket.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (terse)
dialog: Verify that all contact information
dialog: in these files is current.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Excuse me. Do I work for you?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Didn’t mean to be curt, I’m just
dialog: really focused right now.
text: She flips through the files.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: These are all Blake’s clients.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Yep.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: What are you up to, Turbo?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Taking back what’s mine.
scene_heading: EXT. MR. WHITEMAN’S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY
text: A barbecue for all the people who matter is in full
text: swing. Brie cheese, fine champagne, and stiff upper
text: lips abound. Schooley and McCorkle are off to the
dialog: side, doing what they do...
speaker_heading: SCHOOLEY
dialog: .--holy shit, your fist must have
dialog: smelled like ham salad.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: MCCORKLE
dialog: Still does. I’ve been soaking my
dialog: hand in tomato juice for two weeks
dialog: and it still reeks like spoiled
dialog: cock-garbage.
text: McCorkle holds out his hand. Schooly leans in, takes
text: a long whiff and instantly recoils from the stench.
speaker_heading: SCHOOLEY
dialog: Holy Jesus! That smells just like
dialog: my dream.
text: Meanwhile, at the center of the party, Blake has a
text: crowd of rich folk entranced.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: .-.-and I’ve got a little poem that
dialog: I’d like to read in honor of this
dialog: occasion, if I may.
text: He unfolds a slip of paper and begins to read.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: “It’s easy to grin, when your ship
dialog: comes in, and you’ve got the stock
dialog: market beat. But the man
dialog: worthwhile, is the man who can
dialog: smile, when his shorts are too
dialog: tight in the seat.”
text: The crowd laughs haughtily. Blake’s unearned
text: popularity is mind-numbing. Olivia stands off to the
text: side, stunning and bored.
text: Mr. Whiteman’s WIFE pats Blake’s head like a good
dialog: dog.
scene_heading: MRS. MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: So entertaining...and popular too.
dialog: I’ve always thought you’d fit in
dialog: nicely.
text: Blake’s moment in the sun is dashed when...
scene_heading: TRACY, A FOUR-FOOT TALL, 300-POUND ADOLESCENT, ENTERS
text: LIKE A TASMANIAN DEVIL, screaming and stealing food
text: from everyone and slamming it into her face.
speaker_heading: TRACY
dialog: (between bites)
text: BANNH! Spicy bean burgers...BORPH!
dialog: 40.
scene_heading: EXT. BACKYARD - NEW ANGLE
text: Jim and Rob escort a number of other obese, crippled,
text: and differently-abled people into the backyard.
text: Mr. Whiteman approaches, outraged.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: What the hell are you doing? Who
dialog: are these people...what are these
dialog: people?
text: In the background, Tracy chases down a woman with a
text: plate of ribs.
speaker_heading: TRACY
dialog: BAAARRG! Jimme more meat sauce!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON
text: Olivia and Mrs. Mr. Whiteman watching from afar.
scene_heading: MRS. MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: What in blazes is wrong with that
dialog: horrible child?
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: (bored)
dialog: If I had to guess, I’d say Prader-
dialog: Willi syndrome.
speaker_heading: TRACY
text: flattens the woman with a backside clothesline.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA NODS.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Yep, that’s Prader-Willi, alright.
scene_heading: MRS. MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: What is that?
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: It’s a rare genetic disorder that
dialog: causes compulsive eating and
dialog: irrational behavior.
text: TRACY eats the ribs off the ground, screaming to the
text: sky like a victorious predator.
speaker_heading: TRACY
scene_heading: BAAAAARRRRG! 1!
text: BACK TO JIM AND MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: 4l.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Explain, Jim. Now!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: These are your policy holders. I
dialog: thought you should meet the people
dialog: your company has been paying
dialog: millions of dollars in claims to.
text: Jim grabs BLINDY, a fifty-year-old wheezing blind man
text: with an oxygen mask over his face.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: This is Blindy, he--
speaker_heading: BLINDY
dialog: (rasping)
dialog: Trevor. My name is--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: This is Blindy Trevor. He's...
dialog: (reads Blindy’s file)
text: Twenty-three-years-old with
dialog: absolutely no history of health
dialog: problems. Yet as you can see, he’s
text: at least fifty, blind as a bat and
text: suffering from advanced emphysema.
text: Mr. Whiteman squints. Outrage gives way to “tell me
dialog: more.”
scene_heading: ANGLE ON BLAKE
text: as he exits the house, zipping up. He spots Jim with
dialog: Whiteman...this can’t be good.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Hey!
text: Blake rushes over. Wedges himself between Jim and
dialog: Mr. Whiteman.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: How dare you, Jim Simmers. This is
dialog: a private function on private
dialog: property and you are specifically
dialog: not invited. Now pack up these
dialog: mongoloids and get--
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Quiet, Blake. Don’t say another
dialog: word.
dialog: (to Jim)
dialog: Continue...
dialog: 42.
text: Jim points to a woman (FRANCESCA) in an overturned
text: wheelchair. She feebly attempts to fight off...
text: TRACY, who violently yanks at a candy bar that has
text: somehow gotten tangled in Francesca’s hair.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: And that is Francesca. Look at
dialog: her...
speaker_heading: TRACY
dialog: Mounds! Mounds! JIMME MOUNDS!
text: Tracy can’t get the candy bar out of Francesca’s
text: hair, so she starts gnawing on the crippled woman’s
dialog: bouffant.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCA
dialog: Get it off me! Get it off me!
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: (to Jim)
dialog: Jim?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Not yet.
dialog: (hands Mr. Whiteman a file)
dialog: On paper, Francesca is twenty four
dialog: years old, never been sick a day in
dialog: here life, and makes her living as
dialog: a lifeguard.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCA
dialog: Oh GOD! It HURTS!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: But as you can see, she can’t swim.
dialog: She can’t possibly swim.
text: Tracy drags Francesca by her hair. Francesca flails,
text: trying to cling to her wheelchair.
speaker_heading: TRACY
scene_heading: BAARRRAHRR! JIMME MORE NOUGAT! !
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
text: Get to the point, Simmers.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: The point is that you have been
text: defrauded, Mr. Whiteman. By one of
dialog: your own employees.
text: Stunned faces all around.
scene_heading: BACK TO OLIVIA AND MRS. MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: 43.
text: as they survey Tracy’s path of destruction.
scene_heading: MRS. MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: My god. How do we stop her?
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: You can’t. She can’t help herself.
text: Mrs. Mr. Whiteman sighs, shakes her head as she
text: regards the collection of misfits on her lawn.
scene_heading: MRS. MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Goddamn circus people.
text: Olivia shoots her a chastising look and moves toward
text: the action. STAY WITH Mrs. Mr. Whiteman as she
text: plucks the olives from her martini glass and pops
text: them into her mouth. Just as she’s beginning to
dialog: chew...
text: WHHHUMMP! Tracy knocks her to the ground.
speaker_heading: TRACY
dialog: OLIVES AND POPEYE!!!
text: Tracy, her face a deep brown smear of chocolate and
text: hair, grabs Mrs. Mr. Whiteman by the ears and tries
text: to forcibly suck the pre-chewed olives from her
dialog: mouth.
text: Mrs. Mr. Whiteman manages a MUFFLED, HIGH-PITCHED
text: SCREAM...
text: +..one that only Mr. Whiteman can hear. He cocks his
text: head like a dog, then turns to see his wife under
text: retarded assault.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: (panicked, to Jim)
dialog: For the love of god, call off that
dialog: creature!
text: Rob remains standing with his hands behind his back.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Rob?
text: Rob unclenches his hands, revealing a baseball bat
text: tight in his grip.
speaker_heading: ROB
text: (with a gleam in his eye)
dialog: I’m on it.
text: Whiteman watches Rob move to save his wife. He turns
text: back to Jim.
dialog: 44,
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Who has dared defraud me?
text: OFFSCREEN, we HEAR a series of horrible “THWACKS”,
text: punctuated with pained cries from Tracy.
speaker_heading: TRACY (0.S.)
scene_heading: BAAAAARGGGH!!!! PIE! JIMMY MORE
text: PIE! | BAAAAAARRRRGH!
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Now is not the time for this
dialog: discussion, sir. I mean, your wife
text: is being mauled by a four hundred
dialog: pound goonie bird. Perhaps we
dialog: should--
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Didn’t I tell you not to speak?
dialog: (to Jim)
dialog: I want names.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (indicating the retard army)
dialog: Why don’t you ask them...
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Well speak up. Who sold you your
dialog: policies?
text: One by one, they all say the same thing... “Blake
text: Henderson.” Mr. Whiteman is aghast.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: (to Blake)
dialog: Henderson is this true?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: No--well, yes, but not really.
dialog: Kind of. It’s very complicated...
text: Jim hands his stack of files to Mr. Whiteman.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: It’s all right there.
text: The White Man levels his cold blue eyes on Blake.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Blake, you’re fired.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: But I--I’m the most--what about my
dialog: popularity?
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: Get out.
text: Blake looks at Jim, gives him the gunpoint.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I...I never thought you had it in
dialog: you.
text: Blake skulks off. Whiteman clasps Jim on the
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
dialog: I guess you’re my man now, Jim
text: Simmers. Congratulations.
text: He walks Jim into the heart of the barbecue. The
text: crowd embraces him.
text: Olivia moves to his side. Jim takes the glass of
text: champagne from her hand and gulps it down...just like
dialog: he’s gonna do her in a few days.
text: WE PULL BACK, past a table where...
scene_heading: ROB HAS TRACY PINNED FACE DOWN --
text: knee in her back, caressing her face with the tip of
text: his bat, gently cramming cake down her gullet.
text: Tracy squirms, Rob enforces the pin, whispering...
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Shhh. Shhhhhhhh.
scene_heading: INT. VALID INSURANCE COMPANY - NEXT DAY
scene_heading: LOW ANGLE TRACKING SHOT PULLING JIM
text: in SLOW MOTION as Jim enters the office like a rock
dialog: star.
text: Jim nods to his former co-workers who gaze upon him
dialog: in awe. High fives are slapped. Jim gives the “you
text: know it” nod to all those who are now beneath him.
text: HE GETS TO THE STAIRS --
text: Pauses. Looks back at the adoring crowd.
text: A single tear in his eye.
text: As Jim takes that first monumental step towards true
text: happiness, the crowd erupts in applause.
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (sotto; heartfelt)
dialog: Today, I win. I win it hard.
text: Jim climbs to the top of the stairs. He absolutely
text: MUST give them one last parting glance.
text: EVEN SLOWER MOTION as Jim looks down, not at his fans
text: but at his defiant erection. His hard, hard defiant
text: erection. He sticks it out for the crowd below, just
dialog: a little bit...but enough.
dialog: Goddamn he has gusto.
speaker_heading: BLACK
dialog: SUPER: “45 Minutes Later...”
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S NEW OFFICE - DAY
text: A palatial high tech office dominated by a huge oak
text: desk, a big screen TV and a wet bar.
text: Jim is slumped in his chair, miserable.
text: The phone is ringing, the files before him sit
text: unaddressed. He doesn’t even have his kick ass boner
dialog: anymore.
text: Without warning, Rob and Larry barge in followed
text: closely by JIM’S NEW SECRETARY.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Look at these digs. This place is
dialog: fucking opulent and shit.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: I’m sorry sir...these men DO NOT
dialog: have an appointment and I....
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (to Secretary)
dialog: They’re fine, Cindy. Leave us.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Yes, Mr. Simmers.
text: She leaves. Rob prowls the office like a kid ina
dialog: candy store.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: This office is incredible, man.
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (without enthusiasm)
dialog: Yeah.
text: Rob crosses to the big screen.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Holy shit! Is that a fifty-inch?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Sixty.
text: Larry spies the Johnnie Walker Blue label at the wet
dialog: bar.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Johnnie Walker Blue? GODDAMN, that
dialog: shit is almost as good as Johnnie
dialog: Walker Green! Can I have some?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: The Blue is better than the Green.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: No it’s not. Can I have some?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Yes it is. Right, Jim?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Look fool, everyone knows the Green
dialog: is the best. Cuz it costs more.
dialog: Can I have some, Jim?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: How do you figure?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: What color is money, man? Ipso
dialog: facto, motherfucker...
text: Rob just shakes his head.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Can I have some...?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Take it.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Take the Blue? Like all of it?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Take the whole bottle. I don’t
dialog: care.
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: What’s wrong with you, man? I
dialog: mean, you’ve got the sweet office,
dialog: the Johnnie Walker blue...you’re
dialog: living the life now, man.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I dunno. It seems like it should
dialog: be...better.
dialog: BAMN!!!
scene_heading: INT. THE BEACHCOMBER BAR - DAY
text: The bar is empty except for our guys. Jim has a mean
dialog: buzz going.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Man, I don’t know any other job
dialog: that let’s you get drunk in the
text: middle of the day.
text: A WAITER steps up. Drops off a few beers.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (to the waiter)
dialog: Hey, what’s the most expensive
dialog: drink in this place?
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: This is a dive bar, dude.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Come on, what’s the most expensive
dialog: drink you’ve ever served?
text: The Waiter thinks for a moment.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Well, some rapper from New York was
dialog: once in here, throwing his black
dialog: rap money around. He ordered...what
dialog: was that...oh yeah, he ordered a
dialog: Long Island Iced Tea made with all
dialog: top shelf liquor.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Perfect. We'll take six.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: I’m gonna need a deposit on that.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: . (tipsy)
dialog: NO! No. Jim, no.
dialog: 49,
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: It’s okay, Larry.
text: Jim pulls out a credit card. As he’s handing it to
text: the waiter, Larry snatches it. Inspects it.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Holy shit...company credit. That
dialog: shit’s gangsta.
text: The Waiter grabs the card from Larry and heads to the
text: bar. Jim drops his head, frustrated with everything.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Bargh.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Bargh? Why bargh? You’re in the
dialog: game now. You’re checking off the
dialog: list, man. In a year or so you’ll
dialog: be able to afford that car, and--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: A year? Fuck a year. I got enough
dialog: in my savings to buy that car now.
dialog: Outright.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Out-motherfucking-RIGHT!
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: You can’t spend your savings on a
dialog: car, Jim.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Why? Why can’t I do it?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Because it’s just not done.
dialog: Savings are--they’re for...later.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I personally have conclusive
dialog: fucking proof that there is no
dialog: later. Sometimes, you just gotta
dialog: say I don’t give a fuck--
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: --and steal a bitch’s money.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Sometimes you’ve got to go large or
dialog: stay at home.
dialog: 50.
text: Rob has no idea what he’s talking about. But Larry
text: does. He and Jim bump knuckles.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Players do what they want to,
dialog: suckers do what they can.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: FUCKIN’ A RIGHT! That! That right
dialog: there...
dialog: (points into Larry’s mouth)
dialog: That’s what I’m talking about.
text: The Waiter arrives with their drinks in tall,
text: precious glasses. Jim grabs his, downs it, wipes his
dialog: mouth.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Let’s do this!
scene_heading: EXT. BMW DEALERSHIP - DAY
text: A fleet of shiny Beamers and our three guys.
text: Rob is cradling four sloshing Long Island Iced teas
text: in his arms, staining everything in his vicinity.
text: Larry holds a small BRIEFCASE while trying to eat a
text: scalding pizza, too drunk to understand that it needs
dialog: to cool.
text: Jim has an even meaner buzz going. When the CAR
text: SALESMAN comes over, Jim glares at him.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: (thick country accent)
dialog: Hey, ya'll. Looking to buy or just
dialog: lookin’?
text: The Salesman looks behind him, unable to comprehend
text: why Jim is glaring so viciously. Rob hands Jima
dialog: drink.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (points at a car)
dialog: I want that silver M-3, right
dialog: there. How much?
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Oh, that’s a beaut’. It’s fully
dialog: loaded, ya’ll. I reckon.
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Look, no pitch, this is gonna be
dialog: the easiest sale you’1l ever make.
dialog: How much?
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Well, now, lemme just tell you’n
dialog: what this here lil’o jewel gots
text: under the hood.
text: The Salesman is getting progressively more country
dialog: with each exchange.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’ve got cash. How much?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Yeah, how much?
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Well, as I’m sure you’n alls knows,
dialog: the Beamer M W is not for the
dialog: common, man. But, now, I wouldn’t
dialog: reckon you is--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: How. Much?
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Well, that’d all depend. You see,
dialog: this one here, that you’se is
dialog: gazing upon, this one’s the Tiger
dialog: Edition. It’s got double aluminum
dialog: crank shafts and--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I don’t care. How much?
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: I’m sure you wanna know what you’re
dialog: gettin’. And what you’d be
dialog: gettin’.
text: While the Salesman talks, Jim grabs the briefcase and
text: cracks it open. It’s full of cash.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: ...-I mean, one might mosey on down
dialog: to the hoosegow with a big ole
text: posse’a desperados and commence to
dialog: demanding all kinds’a things, I
dialog: reckon. But don’t mess with Texas,
dialog: that’s where I’d be hailin’ outta,
dialog: ya know--
dialog: Silence.
dialog: that he
dialog: price.
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Why won’t you answer?
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Sir, I see you're serious--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: NO! That’s not an answer. A
dialog: proper answer is a number. A
dialog: number that will allow me to hand
dialog: you this cash and drive off with
dialog: that car.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: But, now don’t get yer dander up,
dialog: cowboy. I’m gonna lay down the
dialog: statistics--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Motherfucker! How much is the car?
dialog: You’re in the business of selling
dialog: cars! Just give me a price.
text: The Salesman seems to finally have grasped
dialog: needs to shut the fuck up and give Jima
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Hey now, I’m here to work with you.
dialog: We got different financing options
dialog: that a fella such as yerself may
dialog: want to choose from.
speaker_heading: JIM
text: Different from a briefcase full of
dialog: cash?
text: The Salesman’s mouth moves, but he can’t form a
dialog: sentence that is a direct answer.
text: Rob rolls his eyes, grabs a slice of pizza, peels off
text: the cheese and slams it sauce-first into the
text: Salesman’s face.
text: The molten sauce scalds him and sets him screaming.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
scene_heading: PRAAAAAHHHHHHH-YA‘LL!!!
text: Rob kneels beside the writhing Salesman and begins
text: peeling
text: off another piece of pizza.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: (whispers )
dialog: How much?
dialog: 53.
scene_heading: INT. BRAND NEW B.M.W. - LATER
text: The guys are packed in, riding in style. Jim fiddles
text: with the stereo as he drinks and drives.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (to Rob)
dialog: What the hell got into you back
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Yeah, you went all Vietnam or some
dialog: shit, like that salesman was a
dialog: freakin’ harp seal or something!
text: Rob squints, trying to process what he just did.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: The dude was wasting our time.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Yeah but it cost me an extra two
dialog: grand to keep him from pressing
dialog: charges.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Like you say, sometimes you just
dialog: gotta say, who the fuck cares,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I don’t. I don’t care about shit!
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Button it, Rainman. You’d have to
dialog: understand to care.
text: Jim swerves, irked that his radio sucks...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: This stupid car doesn’t have
dialog: satellite!
dialog: (looking back)
dialog: How can this be the ultimate
dialog: driving machine and not have
dialog: satellite?
text: All of a sudden, Jim comes up on tail lights. He
text: hits the brakes.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What the--
dialog: 54.
scene_heading: EXT. MID-CAPE HIGHWAY - “SUICIDE ALLEY” - NIGHT
text: A TWO LANE STRETCH OF HIGHWAY with flexible plastic
text: pylons going down the center. Jim’s new beamer is
text: being cock-blocked by a FAMILY OF TOURISTS driving
dialog: half the speed limit.
text: Nothing but open road in front of them.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BMW - CONTINUOUS
text: Jim rides the tourists’ bumper.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Oh, my God!
text: He hits the horn.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: I don’t get it. The speed limit is
dialog: 65, why is this douchebag driving
dialog: 40 miles an hour?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You know, the speed “limit” isn’t
dialog: the speed “requirement.” It’s the
dialog: limit. It’s the fastest you’re
dialog: allowed to go. So really, this guy
dialog: is just choosing not to ride at
dialog: maximum capacity.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Yeah, but there are also speed
dialog: minimums. It’s as unsafe to drive
text: slow on a highway as it is to drive
dialog: fast.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: No. No, Rob. No. Slow is always
dialog: safer.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: You’re a retard, just like my
dialog: boy...but without the strength.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Did you just call your stepkid a
dialog: retard?
text: Robert gulps the last drop of the last Long Island.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Fuck yeah I did. Cuz he is.
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Whoa.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Look, there’s no harm in calling a
dialog: spade a spade as long as you
dialog: appreciate the spade.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (serious as a heart attack)
dialog: You’re a goddamn racist, man. And
dialog: it sickens me.
text: Jim has had enough. He pulls into the center of the
text: road to pass - the pylons strike his Beamer - THWACK!
text: THWACK! THWACK!!
text: An oncoming car forces him back into his lane.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Hey, be careful man. Those pylons--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I know what I’m doing. No stupid
dialog: plastic pylons gonna hurt The
dialog: Ultimate Driving Machine®.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Yeah, but some of them...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I do whatever I want. All the
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Yeah, but...
text: Jim lays on the horn, pulls back into the center of
text: the road. THWACK!! THWACK! THWACK!
dialog: SHKA-BANG!!!
text: The Beamer strikes a SOLID pylon, mangling the grill.
text: The car horn WAILS, stuck. Steam wafts into the
text: atmosphere. As the car limps to the breakdown
dialog: lane...
speaker_heading: LARRY
text: Some of them are filled with
dialog: concrete.
text: A beat.
dialog: 56.
text: Until Rob bursts out in a fit of uncontrollable
dialog: laughter.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAH you
dialog: fucking asshole HAHAHAHAHAHAHA!
text: Whatever. Jim jams the car into gear. He stabs at
dialog: the radio switching stations.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Goddamn analog radio. Goddamn
dialog: everything. Goddamn every fucking
dialog: molecule in the goddamn world.
scene_heading: EXT. OLD MONEY BEACH HOUSE - NIGHT
text: From off in the distance we hear it. We hear it
dialog: coming...
text: The horn.
text: Jim’s new newly fucked up Beamer pulls in front of
text: the house, horn blaring. The back door opens.
text: Before Larry can set both feet on the sidewalk, Jim
text: tears off.
text: Larry shakes his head. Sighs. Digs a clothespin
text: from his pocket, clamps it on his nose, and walks to
text: the front door.
scene_heading: EXT. ROB’S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: We see the silhouette of Rob’s massive son, standing
text: on the roof, screaming at the moon. Not howling,
dialog: screaming...
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: Moon! Mooocoocooon!!!
text: His screams meld with the sound of...
text: Jim’s car horn. The beamer pulls up. Rob gets out.
text: Jim tears off and leaves his friend to face his son.
dialog: Alone.
speaker_heading: ROB
text: MOOOOOOON! !!
text: Junior turns away from the moon and locks eyes with
text: Rob. He squints, ‘oh, yeah, it’s on.’
dialog: 57.
text: Rebecca comes out with a roll of tape. Rob holds out
text: his hands so she can tape his knuckles.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Jim enters. Tosses his keys. Heads straight for the
dialog: bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Sleep eludes him as Jim stares at the ceiling,
text: contemplating his fate.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BEDROOM - MORNING
text: The neighbor’s dog is barking. Jim’s eyes snap open.
text: He sits up with purpose.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - MORNING
text: It’s a disaster area. Jim enters and paints another
text: yellow layer. He pees indiscriminately, all over the
text: floor, the toilet, the walls...whatever. He exits
text: without flushing.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Jim strolls in wearing sweats and a wife beater. He
text: grabs a stick of butter from the fridge. Takes a box
text: of Strawberry Nestle’s® Quick from the cabinet.
text: He jams the butter in the Quick and takes a bite.
dialog: And that shit is good.
text: While he eats his strawberry butter, Jim collects
text: various wash rags from his kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING
text: Jim is now wearing a T-shirt over the wife beater,
text: and he’s holding a pile of other shirts and pants.
text: He puts them on, layer after layer.
text: Then he starts wrapping his hands with the rags.
dialog: 58.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GAY NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER
text: Jim bangs on the door, wrapped in cotton armor. The
text: Gay Neighbor answers.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Morning, Jim. What’s with the--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Where is he? In the back?
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Who?
text: Jim pushes past him.
scene_heading: INT. THE GAY NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Jim freezes when he sees...
text: AN ENTIRE WALL COVERED FLOOR TO CEILING WITH FRAMED
text: PHOTOS OF THE GAY NEIGHBOR’S DOG...
text: FUCKING.
text: Dozens of pictures of Hoag mounting other dogs.
dialog: Hundreds of them really. Poodles and Schnauzers,
text: Shih-Tzus and Beagles, all getting pounded from
dialog: behind.
text: Tiny Dachshunds and Chihuahuas are barely visible
text: beneath Hoag’s massive chest. The Shepherds and
text: Labradors look sad. The Dobermans look frightened.
dialog: There are many emotions, because there are so many
text: pictures of so many dogs getting fucked.
text: And the centerpiece of the collection is photo of the
text: Gay Neighbor giving a big thumbs up as Hoagie
text: piledrives a defeated Great Dane.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: (self-conscious)
dialog: Please don’t think I’m weird. It’s
text: a long story.
text: Jim stares at him.
dialog: Long silence.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: I’m out of my mind...you know that,
dialog: right?
text: Jim shakes it off and marches past him.
dialog: 59.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GAY NEIGHBOR’S BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS
text: 160 pounds of four-legged, cocksucking, Bull Mastiff
text: yanks against his spiked chain, crazed, frothing.
text: This is a very serious dog. Jim takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (without looking back)
dialog: Let him off.
text: The Gay Neighbor moves from behind Jim, and
text: approaches his dog. He seems a bit frightened by his
dialog: own beast.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Jim, I can’t let him off. Look at
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: This has to happen.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Do you understand you’re on his
dialog: property? Hoagie is a full bred
dialog: Bull Mastiff, he’1l kill you, man.
text: The dog snarls, raging against his restraints.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: So be it. Let him off.
text: The Gay Neighbor reaches for Hoag’s collar. Looks at
dialog: Jim one last time.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Are you sure, Jim?
text: Jim nods. The Gay Neighbor releases Hoag. Hoag
text: charges at Jim, leaps...
text: Jim throws up his arms just in time to protect his
text: throat, but the savage animal knocks him to the
text: ground. Hoag sets upon Jim with a ferocity that is
dialog: primal.
text: Jim can do little more than offer his limbs to the
text: whirlwind of fangs.
speaker_heading: JIM
speaker_heading: OH GOD!
text: The dog locks onto Jim’s calf. Hoag shakes
text: violently, tearing off strips of bloody flesh. Well
text: not flesh exactly, it’s just cloth soaked with Jim's
dialog: blood.
dialog: 60.
text: Jim flails for a large grilling fork sitting next to
text: a barbecue grill.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: (subtitled; speaks in Japanese)
dialog: Hoag, he's going for the fork!
text: The dog advances to the back of Jim’s neck and locks
text: on. This could be the death of Jim.
speaker_heading: JIM
speaker_heading: OH GOD!
text: But Jim has the fork. With all his might he shoves
text: the fork into Hoag’s back. Hoag YELPS. Jim tries to
text: scramble to his feet but falls due to the severe
text: wound on his calf. Blood pours out of his pant cuff.
text: He’1l die soon.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Hoag, he's lost tremendous blood.
dialog: You must sweep the leg...NOW!
text: Despite a fork protruding from Hoag’s back, the
text: animal is in top form. Again it gets airborne...
scene_heading: ON JIM —- SLOW MOTION:
text: Hoag flies through the air with a clear line to Jim's
text: throat. But at the last second--BAMN!, Jim clocks
text: him with a round house punch to the head.
text: Jim screams, certain that he’s broken his hand.
text: But Hoag is also hurt. And more importantly, he’s
dialog: cautious.
text: The two circle each other. Both bloody.
text: Jim looks for a way out. The back gate is fifteen
text: feet away. The Gay Neighbor shakes his head...
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: You'll never make it, Jim. What
dialog: you've begun cannot be undone.
dialog: (quoting “Wanted” )
dialog: We get our orders from a loom. Of
speaker_heading: FATE!
text: Hoag is regaining his aggression, snarling and
text: lunging. Jim scrambles to find anything that will
dialog: help him not die.
text: Lighter fluid. A sustained squirt burns Hoag’s eyes.
dialog: Jim looks around for matches, cuz this fight is that
text: fucked up. He reaches for the matches but...
dialog: 61.
text: The Gay Neighbor is there first. The dog looks at
dialog: his master.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: No mercy! No mercy!
text: Hoag charges. The moment of truth is upon Jim and he
text: answers the call...Jim charges.
speaker_heading: JIM HOAGIE (THE DOG)
text: AAHHHH! !! AAHHHH! ! !
text: Hoag gets ahold of Jim’s thigh, but Jim has a firm
text: grip on that fork. He shoves it in a bit deeper.
text: Hoag pulls back just long enough for Jim to...
text: Thrust his fist down into Hoag’s throat, making it
text: impossible for him to bite down.
text: Jim’s eyes are watering from the pain.
scene_heading: ZOOM INTO JIM’S MIND:
text: SUPER: Monday, November 18, 1985 9:46 PM EST...
dialog: The infamous Monday Night Football game between the
text: New York Giants and the Washington Redskins plays on
text: television. YOUNG JIM, 15, watches with his FAMILY.
text: ON TV: Lawrence Taylor blitzes and drops onto Joe
text: Thiessman’s leg, snapping it like a piece of celery.
text: Everyone watching turns away in horror.
text: BACK TO THE FIGHT:
text: Jim seizes the moment. He presses down on Hoagie’s
text: little paw with his knee, and drops his shoulder into
dialog: the dog’s leg joint...
speaker_heading: “CRACK”
speaker_heading: HOAGIE (THE DOG)
dialog: AAAHHHHHHH! ! !
text: David Hoag drops to his side. His lower leg juts
text: outward at a sickening angle.
text: Jim stumbles back while the dog writhes, forever
dialog: crippled should it manage to live.
text: Jim picks up a brick. Raises it for the killing
dialog: blow...
dialog: 62.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Enough!
text: Jim freezes.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Enough, Jim. You’ve made your
dialog: point.
text: The Gay Neighbor moves between Jim and the dog. He
text: reaches to calm Jim who is still flush with
text: adrenaline. He takes Jim’s hand and raises it high.
scene_heading: THE GAY NEIGHBOR
dialog: Winner and new champion: Jim
dialog: Simmers!
dialog: Despite the absurdity and horror Jim’s just been
text: through, he smiles. Looks over at Hoag, who has
text: crawled under the porch, whimpering in the shadows.
text: An eruption of raucous APPLAUSE. Jim looks up to
dialog: see...
text: THE NEIGHBORS from every house gathered around the
text: fence, clapping wildly.
scene_heading: EXT. GARAGE - DAY
text: Jill rocks out on guitar with the rest of her power
text: trio, DEBORAH on bass, JOSIE on drums. They suck in
dialog: that special way that only girl bands can.
text: The band stops when they hear the whine of a car
text: horn...it’s getting closer.
speaker_heading: JIM PULLS UP --
text: Approaches the garage still wearing his soiled battle
text: clothes. He looks like shit hit with a brick...wiped
text: on a curb...and stepped on by a bum.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Holy crap! You look like brick-hit
dialog: shit. What happened to you?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I fucked up a dog. An asshole dog.
text: An asshole dog who had it coming.
text: She turns to her bandmates.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Let’s take five.
dialog: 63.
scene_heading: INT. JILL'S COTTAGE - DAY
text: Definitely the home of an art chick. Pop art on the
text: walls, paintings on the floor that are too cool to
dialog: hang. Pez dispensers on the mantle, you get the
dialog: idea.
text: At the kitchen table, Jill unwraps Jim’s bloodied
text: knuckles. Jim has the hundred yard stare now.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Jesus. From the look of these
dialog: wounds it looks like you could've
dialog: been killed.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I beat him, Jill. Do you
dialog: understand what level I’m on now?
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Um...I, uh, no. No I don’t.
text: There’s even more blood on his arm. She grabs a pair
text: of scissors and cuts away the layers of cotton.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Jill, it’s like, you know how those
text: kids from the ghetto are all
dialog: fearless when you meet them?
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: You’ve met kids from the ghetto?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: That’s not the point. I’m telling
dialog: you, I’m on a whole ‘nother level.
text: Jill pauses.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Jim...seriously, you've been acting
dialog: kinda weird lately...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: That doesn’t matter, Jill.
dialog: (re: his exposed wounds)
dialog: Use the Kettle One.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: That’s gonna burn--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Jill, did you not hear me? Nothing
dialog: matters, not even pain.
dialog: 64.
text: Jill pours the Kettle One vodka on Jim’s wound -- Jim
text: spazzes out.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: AH! Monkey fucking ball pincher!
text: He pours ice over his arm. Sits. Grabs the bottle
text: from her hand and takes a swig...and barfs it right
text: back up. Onto her shoulder.
text: Jill hops up.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Jesus!
text: Jim takes another swig. It pops right back out
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: How do people drink this stuff
dialog: straight?
text: Jim notices Jill glaring.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Sit down, Jill.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Sit down. Listen to me, nothing
dialog: you think matters, matters. I
dialog: don’t care that I threw up on you,
dialog: Jill. But you can’t fathom that
dialog: because you’re still...
dialog: (motions waist-level)
dialog: Here. I’m...
dialog: (motions something up high)
dialog: Here. I faced down a beast that
dialog: would have ripped you to bits.
dialog: I’ve looked death in the face and
text: stabbed it. With a fork.
text: Jill backs away from him.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: You’re starting to freak me out
dialog: here...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Don’t be scared, Jill. What you're
dialog: seeing is not an emotional break
text: down, it’s a moment of clarity.
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve been focused on the wrong
dialog: things. You’ve helped me see that.
text: He takes her hands.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: I have?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Of course, Jill. I thought the job
dialog: and the car were important, but
dialog: they’re not. None of that was ever
dialog: going to make me happy, I see that
dialog: now.
text: She likes where this is going, but bites back a
text: smile. Dramatic pause.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I need to fuck Olivia. Probably in
dialog: her ass.
text: The words hang heavy in the air. Jill looks at Jim
text: incredulously.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: How can you...how can you say that
dialog: to me?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What?
text: Jill tries to contain the hurt she feels as she caps
text: the vodka, trashes the rags.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Is my new found magnitude
dialog: overwhelming you?
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: No, dude. It’s the fact that
dialog: you're an asshole.
text: Jill leaves before the tears can overtake her.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BEAMER - DRIVING - DAY
text: As Jim pulls away from Jill’s house, he dials a
text: number on his cell and punches the speakerphone
text: button. After a moment...
speaker_heading: OLIVIA (OVER SPEAKER)
dialog: Hello? (groggy)
dialog: ello?
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Olivia. Thank God... Look, I just
dialog: realized that I need to get this
dialog: thing on the road so I’m gonna pick
dialog: you up tonight...
dialog: (thinks )
dialog: But you know what? Fuck tonight,
dialog: that’s too soon. It’s gonna take
dialog: me about a week to prepare, then
dialog: I’1ll come get you...
text: Jim figures out the calendar date in his head.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: The nineteenth. Saturday. One
dialog: week from today. I’m gonna pick
dialog: you up at eight. Dinner’s gonna be
dialog: great. Then, there’s gonna be soft
dialog: music and rose petals--fucking
dialog: great.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA (OVER SPEAKER)
dialog: Who is this?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Also, you’re gonna bring a red
dialog: bathing suit. That shit is hot.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA (OVER SPEAKER)
dialog: Jim?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No panties, either. I mean, I
dialog: doubt you’d have them on, but if I
text: see a panty line the deal’s off.
dialog: Alright, great. This is great.
dialog: Later.
text: He hangs up in her face. Nods to himself, thoroughly
dialog: satisfied.
scene_heading: INT. STOP & SHOP SUPERMARKET - DAY
text: Larry and Jim walk through the aisles at a
dialog: presidential clip.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I’m flattered that you came to me
dialog: and shit. But tapping the ass of a
dialog: girl like Olivia is a big deal and
dialog: I don’t know if there’s time to
dialog: train you.
dialog: 67.
text: Larry scratches his nuts while he scans the shelves.
text: The scratching is notable to Jim, and several
text: passersby.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’ve gotta get this done, Larry and
dialog: I really want to maximize the
dialog: experience. I’m ready to take it
dialog: all the way.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Ready are you? What know you of
dialog: ready?
text: Larry has a superior air about him. Like a guru who
dialog: wants his ego stroked. And his cock too.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Fucking Yoda? Dude, I’m serious!
dialog: I’m getting a shot at the title and
dialog: I need to knock this outta the
dialog: park.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: He has much anger in him--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Stop that!
text: Larry raises his eyebrows, warning. Jim lets it go.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Are you gonna get mad at me?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Good, cuz for eight hundred years
dialog: have I trained playahs. My own
dialog: counsel will I keep on who is to be
dialog: trained.
text: Jim rolls his eyes. Larry grabs the crotch of his
text: shorts and violently rakes it against his pubes.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: A playah must have the deepest
dialog: commitment, the most serious mind.
dialog: (off Jim’s face)
dialog: This shit is relevant, Jim.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: So are you gonna help me or not?
text: Larry looks off into the distance, dead serious.
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: This one a long time have I
dialog: watched... All his life has he
dialog: looked away...to the future, to the
dialog: horizon, never his mind on where he
dialog: was. What he was doing.
dialog: (looks Jim in the eye)
dialog: Adventure, hmmph. Excitement,
dialog: hmmph. Playahs crave not these
dialog: things. You are reckless, Jim.
text: A RANDOM DUDE chimes in as he passes.
speaker_heading: RANDOM DUDE
dialog: (chuckles )
dialog: So was I if you remember.
text: Jim rolls his eyes. Larry pulls down a box of Nix
text: “one treatment” pubic delousing cream.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Honestly, I don’t think you have
dialog: the heart to be a true go-hard-in-
dialog: the-paint playah.
text: That’s it. Jim snatches the box from Larry, rips it
text: open, squeezes out a generous dollop and...
text: THRUSTS HIS HAND DEEP INTO LARRY’S JUNK.
text: He rubs the crab medicine vigorously. Larry is both
text: shocked and impressed.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Will you finish what you begin?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I won’t fail you. I’m not afraid.
text: Larry smiles maliciously.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You will be. You will be...
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP:
scene_heading: BEGIN FUCK MONTAGE:
text: as Larry helps Jim take his fuck game to the next
dialog: level.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BATHROOM - DAY
text: Larry hands Jim a towel.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: LARRY (V.O.)
dialog: One thing you gotta know is that
dialog: you've gotta masturbate fifteen
dialog: times a day. You’ve gotta tug and
dialog: tug and tug and tug until your dick
dialog: doesn’t give a shit.
text: Larry grabs Jim’s hand and slaps a gob of Vaseline
dialog: into it.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BATHROOM - DAY
text: Jim and Larry stand before the sink.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Remember that whole Sam Kinnison
dialog: bit about how the key to eating
dialog: pussy is licking the alphabet?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No, but continue.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: It’s bullshit. It’s like putting
dialog: leaded gas in your car, it can’t be-
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: It can’t be done. Leaded gas is
dialog: old and gone, so is the American
dialog: alphabet. But the Japanese
dialog: alphabet...
text: Larry pulls out a STENCIL with Japanese letters on it
text: and tapes it to the mirror.
speaker_heading: LARRY (CONT'D)
dialog: The Japanese alphabet is like
dialog: teaching your tongue kung fu.
text: Jim leans in begins licking the mirror through the
dialog: stencil.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Jim sits in front of his computer, watching porn, in
text: the middle of a beatoff session. Larry enters and
text: slaps a choke hold on Jim from behind.
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: LARRY (V.O.)
dialog: You've gotta learn to pull out of
dialog: the pussy. As many times as it
dialog: takes. Eventually, you find your
dialog: quan.
speaker_heading: ouan? JIM (V.0.)
dialog: juan?
text: Jim struggles to keep pace despite the oxygen loss.
scene_heading: INT. SOME CHICK’S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Larry’s spiel continues seamlessly as Jim watches him
text: FUCKING A REDHEADED CHICK.
speaker_heading: LARRY (CONT'D)
dialog: (while fucking)
dialog: ...the Quan is a euphoric state in
dialog: which a man has pulled outta that
dialog: pussy so many times that he can go
dialog: for hours.
text: Larry pulls out of the pussy. Just stands there,
text: arms outstretched, Christlike.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: Larry shouts commands as Jim works the Japanese
text: stencil with his tongue.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Faster! I SAID FASTER!
text: Jim speeds up...until suddenly, he suffers a severe
text: tongue cramp. Larry grabs Jim’s tongue and rolls it
text: in his hands until Jim pushes him away.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S KITCHEN - DAY
text: Larry pulls out a ripe cantaloupe.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Now, I understand you’re interested
dialog: in “entering the Brown Derby”,
dialog: correct?
text: Jim nods. Larry stabs a small hole in the
text: cantaloupe. Presents it to Jim.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Have at it.
dialog: 71.
text: Jim approaches the melon tentatively. Steels
text: himself. Eases his manstick forward. He grimaces in
dialog: pain...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: It’s too small.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Size matters not. Judge me by my
dialog: size do you?
text: Larry pulls out his shit. Jim gets scared. Backs
text: away. Larry lines up the cantaloupe...
text: ANGLE ON LARRY FROM BEHIND
text: Larry thrusts with mondo-gusto...
dialog: WA-POW!!!!
text: Orange fruit guts splatter everywhere, including
text: Jim's face.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (incredulous)
dialog: I don’t...I don’t believe it.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (solemnly)
dialog: That is why you fail.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: Filled with steam. Larry rubs Jim’s shoulders as he
text: steps up to the mirror. Jim leans in and writes his
text: name in perfect Japanese with his tongue.
dialog: High fives!
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Larry eats cereal while Jim cranks one out to Bill
text: O’Reilly’s news hour, his dick not giving a shit.
text: TRIUMPHANT MUSIC rises as...
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S KITCHEN - DAY
text: Jim has four different sized melons lined up. Each
text: has a small hole in them. Larry blindfolds his
text: pupil. Jim moves in just as...
dialog: 72.
text: The Gay Neighbor enters through the kitchen door.
text: His eyes go wide in amazement as...
scene_heading: WA-PAPAPAPOW!
text: Four varieties of melon drip off of The Gay
text: Neighbor’s face. He smiles deliciously.
scene_heading: END MONTAGE.
scene_heading: INT. THE BEACHCOMBER BAR - EVENING
text: Jim and Larry sit with a row of drinks. Jim taps his
text: fingers on the table, eyes locked on the clock.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’ve got two hours before I’m
dialog: supposed to pick her up. Am I
dialog: ready?
text: Larry squinches his face dramatically. Makes Jim
dialog: sweat a bit.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: No more training do you require--
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Enough of the Yoda, Larry.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Okay okay. Truth is, most of that
dialog: shit was overkill.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Yeah, I kinda figured.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I mean, I trained you to be a black
dialog: belt ninja when all you needed was
text: a blue belt.
dialog: (mischievous)
dialog: Or should I say, a blue belt.
text: Larry’s last sentence only makes sense after he digs
text: out a BLUE PILL from his pocket. It’s covered in
text: lint, buried in pennies and nickels, but there it
dialog: is...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Viagra®?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: One pill to rule them all
dialog: (before Jim can react)
dialog: Sorry.
dialog: 73.
text: SCREAMS from the ladies room. Rob exits hastily.
text: Sniffs his fingers as he rejoins the guys.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Why were you in the chick shitter?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: You never get tired of seeing new
dialog: ass, n’ shit.
text: Rob tries to get a high-five, Larry denies him.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Wait, what? I thought you were the
dialog: king of monogamy
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: I don’t know, lately, the whole
dialog: same-old-hole-for-the-rest-of-your
dialog: life bit seems...unfulfilling.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (to Larry)
dialog: How much lead time do I need with
dialog: this Viagra®? An hour? Two?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Hold on, Jim.
dialog: (to Rob)
dialog: Rob, come on, don’t go off the
dialog: grid. You're the family guy.
dialog: You’re all about your wife and kid.
dialog: That’s you, you know?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Yeah, but watching you and Jim, I
dialog: don’t know. There’s something to
dialog: it. I mean, like Jim always says,
dialog: ‘sometimes you just gotta say fuck
dialog: it’...and give up.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Right, Jim?
text: Jim ignores him, snaps his fingers in Larry’s face.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Focus, Larry. How much lead time?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: In a minute, Jim, this is important
dialog: shit.
dialog: (to Rob)
dialog: Wait, what are you talking about?
dialog: The kid? Your marriage?
dialog: (tries to joke)
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: LARRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Killing those defenseless baby
dialog: seals and shit?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: I’m talking about all of it. I
dialog: mean, my wife is so fucking
dialog: sweet...I can’t lie, it irks me.
dialog: It kinda seems fake. And Junior,
dialog: I’m pretty sure I love him but...I
dialog: try to be gentle with him, every
dialog: night when I’m putting him to bed,
dialog: I try to be gentle, and then I find
dialog: this...
text: He pulls out a Martial Arts magazine: “Ten Ways to
dialog: Kill With Your Hands."
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Yeah. Yeah, that’s pretty fucked.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: See? And that ain’t the half of
dialog: it. You don’t know, Larry. You
dialog: just don’t know.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Oh, come on. You’re living the
dialog: American dream, man.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: On the outside. Just like you guys
dialog: think those baby harp seals are so
dialog: warm and cute. But you don’t know.
dialog: You do not fucking know...
text: WE ZOOM INTO ROB’S MIND
text: A COMPUTER ANIMATED world of snow. The Canadian
dialog: arctic. Just like in those classic Coke®
text: commercials, we see a MOMMA POLAR BEAR and her BABY
text: BEAR playing with a ball.
text: LIVE ACTION ROB is a short distance away, watching
text: from astride his snowmobile.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Awww...
text: Baby Bear paws at the ball, accidentally knocking it
text: into a hole in the ice. Baby Bear tries to reach the
text: floating ball but has no luck. Momma Bear just
dialog: smiles...”“Isn’t he precious?”
text: Just then, a BABY HARP SEAL pops up in the water.
text: Locks eyes with Baby Bear. They smile, not as lovers
text: but as friends. The tableaux is so cute it hurts.
dialog: 75.
text: The fluffy white baby harp seal nudges the ball so
text: that his new friend can retrieve it. The Baby Bear
text: leans over the hole and...
text: Without warning, the Baby Harp Seal latches onto the
text: Baby Bear's throat! Blood gushes from the “bahhing”
text: Baby Bear’s mangled throat as...
text: FIVE MORE BABY HARP SEALS erupt from beneath the
text: water and pounce on the Baby Bear.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: OH, FUCK!
text: Like piranha, the Baby Harp Seals ravage the Baby
text: Bear, taking him down, consuming him even as he
text: fights for his life. Soon there is nothing left but
text: bone and red snow.
text: Momma Bear’s eyes are wide with shock. Even MORE
text: BABY HARP SEALS emerge from the water and swarm
text: toward the Momma Bear. She finally comes to her
text: senses and takes off running.
text: They flop after her shockingly fast. Within seconds,
text: they’re on her, devouring her hind quarters before
text: she even realizes it. Momma Bear roars in agony as
text: the reality of her pain reaches her brain...
text: Rob winces as the bloodthirsty Seals finish her off,
text: leaving nothing but a nasty swath of guts and bones.
text: Time to leave. Rob tries to fire up his snowmobile
dialog: but it won’t turn over!
text: THE BABY HARP SEALS HEAR HIM!!!
text: They flop towards him, a seething mass of crimson fur
text: and teeth. Rob yanks the starter cord furiously.
dialog: They’re closing in! He’s not gonna make it!!
speaker_heading: JIM (V.0.)
dialog: What’s the fucking lead time,
dialog: Larry?!
text: BACK IN THE BAR
text: Jim is holding Larry by the collar while Rob trembles
dialog: silently.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (to Jim)
dialog: I don’t know, an hour...maybe two.
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Fuck it.
text: Jim slams back the pill with a shot of whiskey.
text: Just then Jill enters. Sees Jim and deliberately
text: avoids him as she makes her way to the far end of the
dialog: bar.
text: Jim stares at her but she refuses to meet his gaze.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’m outta here.
text: Jim storms his way to the exit.
text: We stay with Rob and Larry. Rob continues to
text: tremble, traumatized by his memory. Larry moves in,
text: wraps his arms around Rob in a comforting embrace.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (softly)
dialog: I didn’t know.
scene_heading: EXT. OLIVIA’S CONDO - NIGHT
text: An upscale condo in one of the Cod’s many gated
dialog: communities. We HEAR the legendary sound of Jim’s
text: stuck car horn approaching.
text: Jim’s busted Beamer pulls up. Jim kills the engine -
text: which has no effect on the horn - and climbs out,
text: dressed in his finest.
text: He walks the walk as he walks to the door and knocks
text: with unbridled confidence. Seconds later, the door
text: swings wide to reveal Olivia, dressed to the nines.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You look fucking awesome.
dialog: (motions a circle)
dialog: Spin.
text: Just a slight hesitation before she obliges. No
text: panty lines are visible. Jim nods, satisfied.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Let’s go.
text: Jim offers his arm and leads her toward his bleating
dialog: vehicle.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Is that...is this your car?
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (confident, ignoring the horn)
text: Yep. It’s the all-new 2009 BMW M3.
text: With a snarling V8 engine and
dialog: unparalleled driving dynamics, this
dialog: sweet baby redefines the ultimate
dialog: driving experience.
text: Jim opens the passenger side door for her.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: But what’s up with the --
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Get in.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BEAMER - DRIVING - NIGHT
dialog: The horn is relentless and we won’t stop writing about
text: it. While Jim drives, he moves his mouth in some weird
text: pattern but not making a sound. Olivia watches him
text: quizzically.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
text: yells over the horn)
dialog: What’s that you’re doing, Jim?
text: Jim can’t hear her over the drone of the horn.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: (louder)
dialog: JIM! What is that you’re doing
dialog: with your mouth?
text: Jim turns to her, smiles and nods his head.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: (at the top of her lungs)
dialog: Your mouth! What are you doing
dialog: with your MOUTH?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Oh. It’s Japanese. It’s the
dialog: Japanese alphabet.
text: It’s hard to tell if Olivia is impressed or
dialog: skeptical.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: You speak Japanese?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Only with my tongue...
dialog: 78.
text: Jim flashes a devious smile. Olivia just seems
dialog: confused.
scene_heading: INT. RESTAURANT BY THE BAY - NIGHT
text: Jim and Olivia are halfway through a bottle of wine,
text: picking at their expensive meals in silence. Jim
text: can’t help but eye her hungrily. Like a pig eyes an
text: apple. Or a junkie eyes an uncollapsed vein.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: How’s your lobster?
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: It’s unbelievable. Firm, yet
text: succulent.
speaker_heading: JIM’S INNER VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Just like those tits.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: And what about these potatoes, huh?
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Mmmmm. They’re insane! It’s like
dialog: the truffles not only provide a
text: satisfyingly pungent note but
dialog: somehow, they make them seem almost
text: impossibly creamy.
speaker_heading: JIM’S INNER VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Just like the peppery twang of your
text: quivering snitchie.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: And the wine?
text: Olivia swirls the wine in her glass, sniffs it and
text: takes a healthy sip.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: It’s got a great intensity and
text: balance. And a rounded, almost
dialog: almondy flavor that really sets my
text: tongue atwitter.
text: Jim closes his eyes...
scene_heading: JIM'’S NO LONGER INNER VOICE
dialog: (outloud, loudly)
dialog: Just like the chewy chocolate
dialog: center of your perfectly formed
dialog: ass!
dialog: 79.
text: Heads turn in the restaurant but Olivia doesn’t bat
text: an eyelash. And Jim doesn’t seem the least bit
text: embarrassed. He looks her straight in the eye.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Permission to speak freely?
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Granted.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I want to fuck you, Olivia. I want
dialog: to fuck you more than anything I’ve
dialog: wanted to do in the last two weeks.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Of course you do. Everybody does.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: But I’m not everybody, Olivia.
dialog: Unlike the others, I am a unique
dialog: snowflake, created for just one
dialog: purpose...to fuck you stupid.
text: Olivia rolls her eyes - she’s heard this before.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I AM worthy, Olivia. And I’m more
dialog: than capable. In fact, I’ve been
dialog: training?
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: (intrigued)
dialog: Training?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: For what seems like my entire
dialog: lifetime. Everything before
dialog: fucking you is prologue. Every
dialog: last thing I’ve ever done has been
dialog: meaningless next to putting myself
dialog: inside you and moving in and out in
text: a rhythmic manner.
text: Jim speaks with an earnestness that is somehow
dialog: charming.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You are my Rushmore, Olivia. You
dialog: are my Everest.
text: An impossibly long beat.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Sure. What the fuck.
dialog: 80.
text: Jim beams with delight. But then a thought hits him
text: that brings him down.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: One question.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Did you bring it?
text: Olivia smiles. Opens her purse and withdraws a
text: skimpy red bikini. Jim’s eyes go wide.
scene_heading: THUMMM-WACKKKK !
text: Jim’s sudden onset boner slams against the underside
text: of the table, sending the silverware dancing. Olivia
text: smiles, impressed.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (to a passing busboy)
dialog: Check please. Right Goddamn now.
text: As Jim stands, his Viagra®-enforced cock catches the
text: underside of the table and lifts it up.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Wow. That’s gusto!
text: Jim eases back - WHUMP! - and the table drops. But
text: the tablecloth is caught on Jim’s zipper. Jim
text: smiles.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Watch this.
text: He puts his hands on his hips and swivels sharply
text: like a golfer. In one fluid motion, he yanks the
text: table cloth like a magician...just far enough to send
text: dishes crashing to the floor.
text: Every head in the restaurant turns. A WAITER rushes
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: What have you done?
text: Jim stuffs a wad of cash into the Waiter’s shirt
text: pocket. Points to Olivia.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: My name is Jim Simmers, and I’m a
dialog: winner.
text: And then, he yanks the rest of the tablecloth off.
text: Pulls out another wad and tosses it in the Waiter’s
dialog: face.
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Fuck yeah I did.
text: Olivia is so caught up in the moment that she smashes
text: her wine glass against the wall and follows Jim out.
scene_heading: INT. SHERATON HOTEL - NIGHT
text: A nice enough room. Jim and Olivia enter. She’s all
text: over him. He stops her.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Hold on. I can’t afford for this
dialog: to suck.
text: He grabs a bouquet of roses and thrusts them in
text: Olivia's face.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: These are for you.
text: Before she can sniff them he snatches them away and
text: starts tearing off the petals.
text: Olivia doesn’t give a damn. She goes into the
dialog: bathroom.
text: Jim tosses the petals on the floor forming a path to
dialog: the bed.
text: Then, Jim boldly strips buck naked and stands on the
text: bed with his hands on his hips.
text: Jim’s jaw drops when Olivia steps out of the bathroom
text: wearing her red bikini.
text: HER BODY IS SICK! She smirks, confidently. Does a
dialog: spin so he can see that ass in it’s natural
dialog: habitat...a thong.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Oh my God.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: You ain’t seen nothing yet.
text: The top comes off. His jaw drops further. You know
dialog: those tits from Playboy in the 1970s? The ones that
dialog: defied gravity without the aid of silicone? Yeah,
dialog: they’re like that.
dialog: Yet it’s nothing. It’s fucking nothing. Because
text: when Olivia slides her thong down...
text: .-Jim’s eyes fill with wonder as...
dialog: 82.
text: ..+WARM AMBER LIGHT beams from between her legs,
text: bathing the room in it’s supernatural glow.
text: Jim stares like a child. It’s like when John
text: Travolta opened that briefcase in Pulp Fiction.
dialog: Except, this is pussy.
dialog: This is magical pussy.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: That’s right.
text: CLOSE ON JIM’S FACE, overjoyed as she moves towards
dialog: him. He’s gonna get it. It’s actually gonna happen.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: CLOSE ON JIM’S FACE, a mask of sheer and utter
text: disappointment as it rocks back and forth.
text: Olivia rides him, out of her mind with pleasure.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Oh, fuck my God! Oh, Jesus of
dialog: goddamn Gods!
dialog: Jim couldn’t care less. If he cares about anything,
dialog: it’s that this moment is the most disappointing
dialog: moment in his disappointing life.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Jim! Jim! You are the God of
dialog: fuckery! My God! Oh my fuck-God!
text: Jim holds his face, shakes his head...this is SUCH a
text: letdown. Such a soul-crushing letdown.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Jim staggers out, half-dressed, looking like a rape
dialog: victim.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA (0.S.)
dialog: .--and don’t forget to bring some
dialog: water back too. I’m dehydrated!
dialog: (then)
dialog: And get yourself an energy drink!
dialog: You’re gonna need it.
text: Jim wanders down the hall in a haze, trying to
dialog: process why his life has no meaning.
dialog: 83.
scene_heading: EXT. JIM’S BMW - CONTINUOUS
text: Jim leans against the door, bummed. And he still has
dialog: that boner. It points him to...
text: The Black Hobo (from page 20) ranting to a flock of
dialog: seagulls.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: (to the seagulls)
dialog: ...you have spent too many years at
dialog: sea, searching for fish when
dialog: there’s biscuits right here on the
dialog: Titanic!
text: Jim walks up.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: (in a Chinese accent)
dialog: You wirr destloy yourse'ves and the
dialog: shaorin temper if you don't stop
dialog: dis endress soich!
dialog: (to Jim; suddenly lucid)
dialog: Welcome Dolemite, how has it been?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Terrible.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: Drop it, sucka! Drop it like it’s
dialog: hot.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I just had the best pussy on Earth.
dialog: And it sucked.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: That’s an ox and a moron, of which
dialog: you are both?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What?
dialog: (thinks)
dialog: Oxymoron?
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: Shove it.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: But it’s true. It’s fucking true.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO
dialog: Don’t be like these birds,
dialog: Jimberly.
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: BLACK HOBO (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t be out at sea when there’s
text: biscuits at home. On the Titanic.
text: Jim’s mind races trying to decipher the bum’s words.
dialog: He can’t crack the code.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Just tell me what you mean?
text: The Bum just babbles. Jim throws a trash can at his
text: seagulls, sending them flying. He turns and marches
dialog: for the Beamer.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S BMW - NIGHT
text: Jim speeds through the night, lost and alone.
scene_heading: EXT. MID CAPE HIGHWAY - STOPLIGHT - NIGHT
text: Both lanes have cars stopped at the light. The horn
text: of death bears down on them.
text: Jim’s screaming Beamer swerves around the stopped
text: cars and blows through the intersection.
scene_heading: EXT. ROB’S HOUSE - LATER
text: Jim slaps the car into park, causing it to lurch. He
text: gets out. Doesn’t bother to close the door.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (calls out)
dialog: Rob. Rob! ROB!!!
text: Jim pounds on Rob’s door, desperate. Rebecca
text: answers, smiles sweetly...then socks Jim in the head.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Hey--what the hell?
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: (flustered)
dialog: He’s gone you, you, you...hole!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: No, the point is he’s gone because
dialog: of you!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Yeah, but where is he? I need to
dialog: talk to him.
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: Listen to me, you pig! Stop
dialog: cunting on yourself and listen! We
dialog: had it all--our family ass worked
dialog: until you had to shit in your hand
dialog: and wipe it in our marriage’s face!
text: Jim’s face twists trying to deconstruct her awkward
dialog: use of profanity.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Jesus, Rebecca. Can you just tell
dialog: me where he is?
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: Rob never damn cared about all the
dialog: bullshit you and Larry craved! Now
dialog: he’s fuck-ass crazy in the streets
dialog: looking for God only knows what!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: If you don’t know where he is, just
dialog: say it.
text: She socks him again. The neighbors’ lights come on.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: He never stayed out all night! Not
dialog: in forty-two years of marriage.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What the hell are you talking
dialog: about?
text: From inside Rob’s house we hear a mighty groan...
speaker_heading: JUNIOR (0.S.)
text: DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADDY! !
text: Rob looks towards the door. Hears chains rattling.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: You hear that? He misses his
dialog: father! Cocking up a marriage is
dialog: fuck enough, but raping a father
text: away from his man-child is runny
dialog: shit on a bag of fuck!
text: The words impact Jim. Deeply. They make him say...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: So you don’t know where he is?
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: Maybe you should ask my son.
dialog: 86.
text: She pulls out an IRON KEY.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You wouldn't...
text: Rebecca sprints inside the house. Jim sprints for
text: his car. Fighting a dog is one thing, fighting
dialog: Junior is...suicide.
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. JIM’S BMW - CONTINUOUS
text: He fumbles with the keys. Even over the horn he
dialog: hears...
speaker_heading: JUNIOR (V.O.)
text: DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADDY! !
text: Jim turns the ignition. Slams it into reverse. Pure
text: terror floods his face when...
text: JUNIOR CHARGES OUT OF THE HOUSE!
text: He’s huge. He’s naked. And he’s got MMA gloves on,
text: grasping a MONKEY WRENCH in each hand.
text: Jim hits the gas...
speaker_heading: JIM
speaker_heading: FUCK!
text: But he was in reverse! Slams into a car. Now he’s
dialog: done for because...
dialog: JUNIOR IS COMING!
text: The mighty beast lowers his shoulder barreling down
text: on Jim’s beamer. BUH-WHAM! He rams the driver’s
text: side like a T-Rex, denting the door. Glass shatters.
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: (bellowing)
text: DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADDY ! !
text: JIM SLAMS IT INTO DRIVE --
text: He pulls away. Junior gives chase Terminator 2
dialog: style.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Holy Jesus.
scene_heading: JUNIOR HURLS ONE OF WRENCHES --
dialog: 87.
text: Jim SEES IT rocketing towards him in the rearview--
text: leans, just as the wrench shatters the rear window
text: and - THWUNK - lodges into the stereo.
text: More gas. Junior slowly recedes in the rearview...
scene_heading: INT. THE BEACHCOMBER BAR - NIGHT
text: Only the dregs are here. Maureen sits waiting,
text: watching the front door. It opens...
text: The sound of Jim’s car horn floods in behind him as
text: he enters. He sees Maureen, approaches like he’s got
dialog: something to say.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Where’s Larry? I need to talk to
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: I’m waiting for him now. If you
dialog: want to sit, be my guest.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: That’s probably a bad idea...
text: He sniffs...no odor...so he takes a seat.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You know, I was gonna decline cause
dialog: I thought the stench would be too
dialog: stomach churning, but I must say...
dialog: you're surprisingly fresh.
text: She smiles with pride.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Yeah. It’s these charcoal-lined
dialog: panties I bought. As a surprise
dialog: for Larry.
text: Now Jim and Maureen both stare at the door. Every
text: time it opens, the car horn spills in, annoying the
dialog: patrons.
text: They sit in silence for a long awkward moment.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: He should've been here four hours
dialog: ago. I don’t know what’s taking
dialog: him so long.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Ah, he’s probably caught in
dialog: traffic.
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: That redhead lives in Chatham and
text: the mid-cape was jammed coming from
dialog: that direction.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: What redhead?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I don’t know, one of his girls. I
dialog: forget her name.
text: A look of shock and anger contorts Maureen’s face.
dialog: She can
dialog: Maureen
dialog: Maureen
dialog: The car
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (off her expression)
dialog: Are you kidding?
text: ‘t muster a response.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I mean, you can’t be surprised that
dialog: he bangs other women, right? Shit,
dialog: the guy steals from you.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: I don't...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Come on! What about the
dialog: clothespin?
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: It was a game! Or at least I
dialog: thought it was!
text: is devastated. Close to tears.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Hey look, if it’s any consolation,
dialog: he complains about you the least.
text: stands up. Rushes for the door just as...
text: horn screams to announce Larry’s entrance.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (to Maureen)
dialog: Sorry I’m late. I was just--
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: You were fucking a redhead!
dialog: 89.
text: She storms out. Larry knows not the follow. He
text: turns, locks onto Jim.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: What the hell did you tell her?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Thank God you're here, Larry. I
dialog: fucked Olivia and it was great, but
dialog: it really sucked and I--
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Dude, what did you say to Maureen?!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Nothing. She wondered where you
dialog: were, so I told her--
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You told her I was banging the
dialog: redhead? What’s wrong with you?
text: Jim looks at him as if he’d just sprouted a second
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What’s wrong with ME? I’m baffled,
dialog: man. This baffles me. I mean, how
dialog: am I the bad guy?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (incredulous)
dialog: You told my girl that I was fucking
dialog: someone else!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: YOUR GIRL? What the fuck? You’re
dialog: a fucking gigolo, man. With all
dialog: the fucked up shit you do, how is
dialog: it possible that she didn’t
dialog: understand this?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: It doesn’t matter, Jim. You never -
dialog: never ever EVER - say that shit to
dialog: someone's girl.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I didn’t even know she was your
dialog: girl, Larry!
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Neither did I. But no matter how
dialog: weird mine and Maureen’s shit is,
dialog: you know that you shouldn’t have
dialog: made her feel bad, right? Right?
dialog: 90.
text: Jim thinks. Fuck. lLarry’s quite probably right.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You’ve changed, Jim.
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: I thought you were a blue belt.
dialog: But you’re not. You’re just a
dialog: selfish asshole.
text: Larry executes a dramatic about-face and marches
text: defiantly out the door. And of course, the ever-
text: present screech of Jim’s car horn is there to greet
dialog: him.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S LIVING ROOM - 2:58 A.M
text: Jim sits in the dark, lost and alone. He’s reached
text: the end of his rope. His past life is destroyed,
text: there is no future, there is just purgatory.
dialog: Unless...
text: He picks up the remote. The television splashes the
text: darkness with shifting light. Jim leans forward,
text: surfing the channels with urgency.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Come on...
text: Channel after channel, Jim searches for the man
dialog: formerly known as Tom Cruise.
speaker_heading: TIME DISSOLVE:
text: Sunlight fills the room. Jim sits bleary eyed as he
text: continues to search for salvation by television.
text: He stops.
text: He knows what he must do. Jim pisses himself. He
text: pisses himself hard and fast.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Jim puts on his pyjamas and his robe.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
text: Jim, soaked with urine, pours his cereal and throws
text: his berries at the bowl.
text: Jim grabs the Strawberry Quick® and dumps it all over
dialog: his balls.
dialog: 91.
scene_heading: INT. JIM’S LIVING ROOM
text: Jim stands in front of the mirror.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You've won, Jim Simmers.
text: But he hasn’t. Not by a long shot.
text: Jim heads out, bringing us back to where it all began
dialog: and...
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH PARKING LOT - SUNNY DAY
text: Clogged with doughy tourists bulging out of their
text: bathing suits. A long line of cars waiting to park
text: snakes out onto the main road. In the distance, we
text: HEAR the persistent sound of a STUCK CAR HORN getting
dialog: louder.
text: Jim’s Beamer barrels past the line of waiting cars.
text: Steam billows from its severely dented grill.
text: With no regard for anyone, the Beamer swerves in
text: front of an old lady and skids to a stop across the
text: last two handicap spaces.
text: Jim calmly exits the vehicle and begins to peel off
text: his robe and pyjamas one piece at a time as he
text: marches towards a trash can.
text: He’s down to his underwear as he snatches a newspaper
text: out of the PARKING ATTENDANT'S hand and buck naked by
text: the time he squats into the trash can to take a shit.
text: It’s a scene, man. He’s folded in half, ass
text: submerged in the trash can, knees dangling over the
text: side. Jim flips to the sports page, seemingly
text: unaware of the slack-jawed GAWKERS crowded around.
text: The STUCK CAR HORN in the background is accented by a
text: short GRUNT of relief as Jim finishes.
text: He struggles to get out of the can, then pushes past
text: the horrified crowd, bee-lining for the ocean. Naked
text: as a jaybird, he strides purposefully into the cold
dialog: waters of the Atlantic.
text: The wailing CAR HORN rises in CRESCENDO as we...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 92.
scene_heading: AN EMPTY VOID - POST DEATH
text: Complete silence. Jim stands in space. Nothing
text: above him, nothing around him. He clasps his hands
text: over his eyes - not this again.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Unbelievable...
text: That’s it. Jim gives up. He sits cross-legged.
text: After a moment, he just lies back.
text: Then...he squints. Jim turns around, and
dialog: sonuvabitch...
text: The MAGNIFICENT TUNNEL OF LIGHT that he missed before
dialog: is right there.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Get the fuck outta here...
text: Jim stands and walks tentatively towards the light.
text: CLOSE ON A POT OF BOILING WATER FOR NO GOOD REASON...
dialog: +.-no good reason whatsoever.
dialog: Actually, there’s a damn good reason, but we’ll get
dialog: to that in a minute. Right now there’s two words you
dialog: need to know: Hot Dogs.
text: American hot dogs splash into the boiling water so
dialog: they can cook, American style.
speaker_heading: ALL AMERICAN VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: (super intense)
dialog: No. No you don’t do that. You
dialog: release them at a forty-three
dialog: degree angle so as to minimize
text: splashing.
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL:
text: All American superstar, THOMAS DOUGLAS CRUISE. Star
dialog: of Risky Business, the Mission: Impossible series,
text: and most recently, the comedy super-smash BALLS OUT.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - GALLEY - DAY
text: Tom Cruise is in his lavish helicopter teaching his
text: personal chef BASKERVILLE how to make hot dogs to
dialog: perfection. Always perfection.
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: BASKERVILLE
dialog: Mr. Cruise, I understand.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: I’ve measured the water precisely
dialog: to allow the exposed skin of these
dialog: Oscar Meyer® granddaddy franks to
text: harden to perfection.
dialog: (a beat to build up intensity)
dialog: Always perfection.
text: Tom Cruise stares into Baskerville’s soul until
text: Baskerville averts his eyes.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: Baskerville!
text: The chef turns to face his master.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Never look away.
dialog: He is so fucking intense.
speaker_heading: PILOT (0.S.)
dialog: Calling Tom Cruise. Come to the
dialog: cockpit. STAT!
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT - CONTINUOUS
text: Tom Cruise thrusts himself inside. He locks eyes
text: with his PILOT and CO-PILOT. Points his fingers at
dialog: them with ferocity, just to let them know who the
dialog: fuck he is, then says...
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: What is it? What is happening at
dialog: this precise moment?
text: His pilot squints. Points out to the ocean below...
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: Look, Tom Cruise...danger!
scene_heading: TOM CRUISE’S INTENSE P.O.V.
text: Jim is floating, face down in the ocean. Naked.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT - CONTINUOUS
text: Tom Cruise sees the naked floating Jim and doesn’t
dialog: like it, not one goddamn bit.
dialog: 94,
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: Danger, huh?
text: (points in their faces to let them
dialog: know who the fuck he is)
dialog: I hate danger. Danger is a fucking
dialog: asshole!
text: Tom Cruise storms out, ready for action.
scene_heading: INT. BELLY OF THE CHOPPER - CONTINUOUS
text: Tom Cruise grabs a rope, ties it around his leg,
text: ready to jump.
speaker_heading: BASKERVILLE
dialog: Tom Cruise, that’s not the way you
dialog: tie--
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: I know that, Baskerville. But I
dialog: don’t have time to do the research.
text: Tom yanks open the bay door. He jumps. Backwards.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - CONTINUOUS
text: Tom Cruise falls, arms out, Christlike. Better still,
text: Tom Cruise-like. His eyes are closed for maximum
dialog: intensity.
text: But gradually, his perfect form is perverted by
text: factors like gravity and the heavy rotor wash that
text: causes the rope to entangle his body.
scene_heading: EXT. OCEAN - CONTINUOUS
text: About five feet above the surface, Tom Cruise’s rope
text: yanks taut, caught around his left arm and ankle...
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: AAAHHHH!!!
text: Both primary joints, shoulder and hip, are violently
text: dislocated.
scene_heading: INT. BELLY OF THE CHOPPER - CONTINUOUS
text: Baskerville looks down, sees his master screaming in
dialog: agony.
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: (screams up)
dialog: Baskerville! Oh, God!
dialog: Baskerville, I’m in tremendous
dialog: pain!
speaker_heading: BASKERVILLE
dialog: I‘ll bring you back up. Let me--
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: No! NO! Danger cannot win. Not
dialog: this time. This time I make danger
dialog: MY bitch!
dialog: (with steely-eyed intensity)
dialog: Lower me.
speaker_heading: BASKERVILLE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Goddamn you. Goddamn you, you
dialog: magnificent bastard.
text: He lowers the rope and Tom Cruise splashes face first
dialog: into the mighty Atlantic.
scene_heading: EXT. OCEAN - CONTINUOUS
text: Tom Cruise is drowning. He’s tangled in rope with
text: half his body immobilized and he’s drowning.
text: Jim is nearby. Tom Cruise cringes in agony as he
text: valiantly swims towards him.
scene_heading: INT. BELLY OF THE CHOPPER - CONTINUOUS
text: Baskerville and the CO-PILOT scan the ocean below,
text: searching for any sign of their heroic employer.
dialog: Then they see it...
text: Tom Cruise’s hand gives the thumbs-up from beneath
text: the very ocean that is killing him. They hit the
text: button on an electric winch. It’s winchy thing
dialog: turns...
scene_heading: EXT. OCEAN - CONTINUOUS
text: Tom Cruise uses his one good arm to clasp around
text: Jim’s throat in a choke hold. As the rope pulls
dialog: tight...
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
text: AAAAAHHHH!!!! GOD!!
dialog: 96.
text: He dangles, hips and shoulders being ripped further
text: from their sockets by the added weight of Jim, who,
text: if he’s not already dead, is surely being strangled
dialog: to death.
scene_heading: INT. BELLY OF THE CHOPPER - MOMENTS LATER
text: Although severely damaged, Tom Cruise fights to save
text: Jim’s life, beating on his chest.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: Don’t you die on me, man. You've
dialog: never backed away from a fight in
dialog: your life, you bitch! Fight...
dialog: (smacks Jim)
dialog: Fight!
dialog: (smacks Baskerville)
speaker_heading: FIGHT!
text: Jim coughs.
speaker_heading: BASKERVILLE
dialog: He’s alive!
text: Tom Cruise staggers over to a seat, collapses into
text: it, exhausted. Baskerville is horrified when he
dialog: notices...
speaker_heading: BASKERVILLE
dialog: Master! Your...your leg...
text: Tom Cruise’s left arm and leg hang slack, flopped at
dialog: weird angles.
text: Tom Cruise hops up on his one good leg and slams his
text: hip back into socket with a sickening pop.
text: He lets loose an intense groan accompanied by tears
dialog: and snot. Now for the shoulder.
text: The same thing. Another groan. More tears and snot.
text: Tom falls to his knees, then looks up at Jim with
text: damp eyes, burning with full intensity.
text: Jim’s face is calm. He looks at the man who saved
text: him. Everything leading up to this moment now makes
dialog: sense.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’ve finally seen the light. I
dialog: finally understand what you were
dialog: talking about.
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: I used to think that sometimes you
dialog: gotta say what the fuck--or
dialog: whatever, that that was the right
dialog: thing to do. But now I know, Tom
dialog: Cruise. I know that it was the
dialog: wrong movie.
speaker_heading: BASKERVILLE
dialog: (heartfelt)
dialog: I too lived my life out of place.
dialog: Years ago, I was all Days of
dialog: Thunder until I nearly killed a
dialog: man. And when I saw Cocktail, I
dialog: became even more confused. But
dialog: then, when I realized that The
dialog: Outsiders and Far and Away were--
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: ENOUGH! This man has finally
text: gotten out of his own way, and
dialog: you’re confusing him with your
dialog: imprecise bullshit. BEGONE!
text: He points to the cockpit. Baskerville skulks off.
text: Tom Cruise looks at Jim. Intensely.
speaker_heading: TOM CRUISE
dialog: Look, if there’s one thing I've
dialog: learned having climbed a thousand
dialog: mountains, it’s that...
dialog: (one last beam of intensity)
dialog: You’ve gotta learn to live with
dialog: what you are, my friend.
text: Jim contemplates this. It makes hella-sense to him.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Fuck yeah I do.
text: They shake hands. Tom Cruise yanks him into a manly
text: embrace and we FREEZE FRAME triumphantly!
speaker_heading: RANDOM VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: YEAH!
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH PARKING LOT - AFTERNOON
text: Upon golden sun we set hither. Jim walks toward us
text: wearing Baskerville’s pristine white chef’s uniform
text: (with matching hat). He’s serene as he breezes right
text: past the still blaring BMW.
text: Here he goes (again) on his own. Going down the only
dialog: road he’s ever known.
dialog: 98.
scene_heading: EXT. JIM’S APARTMENT - DUSK
text: Jim enters the house. Beat. He exits and heads
text: around back to his dusty SPORTY KIA SPECTRUM (WITH
text: RACING STRIPE). Jim smiles as he climbs into it and
dialog: fires it up.
scene_heading: EXT. ROB’S GARAGE - EVENING
text: Rob is packing up his shit, forlorn. Jim approaches.
text: Notices Rob’s array of SEAL HOOKS lined against the
text: wall. Each more horrendous in design than the next.
text: Rob begins packing his hooks into a stylish attache’
dialog: case, one at a time.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What are you doing, Rob?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: What does it look like I’m doing?
dialog: I’m packing my shit.
text: Jim is calmer than Lake Placid on a placid day.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Do you think what you’re doing is
dialog: smart?
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: I don’t know if it’s smart, but I
dialog: know I’1l be gone. And that’s a
dialog: start.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Why are you doing this?
text: Rob stops packing. Sets down a disturbingly
text: bloodstained gaff.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: I’m doing it because of you.
text: Jim remains silent.
speaker_heading: ROB (CONT'D)
dialog: I saw the light, Jim. I mean,
dialog: there’s a whole world out there
dialog: that doesn’t involve the shit I
dialog: have to deal with here.
text: He waits for Jim to respond, but Jim remains silent.
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Sure, I‘ll miss her. And the boy.
dialog: But you know what? There’s more to
dialog: life than this domesticated
dialog: bullshit, right? Right?
text: Jim slowly shakes his head, ‘no’. Rob is
text: crestfallen.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: But how can you say that, Jim?
dialog: After all you’ve been through and
dialog: all of the glorious things you've
dialog: achieved for yourself in these last
dialog: two weeks, how can you honestly say
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Because it’s the truth. Don’t make
dialog: the mistakes that I made, Rob.
dialog: Don’t give up what you’ve got for
dialog: what will never be. (deep)
text: Jim grabs Rob by the shoulders, as a father would,
text: and stares into his soul with Cruise-like intensity.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: A wise man once spoke to me, Rob.
dialog: And he told me something really
dialog: important, something I’d like to
dialog: share with you.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: I’m listening.
text: Jim takes a deep cleansing breath and closes his eyes
text: as he recalls the words that changed his life...
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: He said, “Don’t be like these
dialog: birds, Jimberly. Don’t be out at
text: sea when there’s biscuits at home.
dialog: On the Titanic.” (fucking deep)
text: Jim opens his eyes.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: And you know what? He was right.
dialog: I heard him, but I was just too
dialog: proud to listen.
dialog: Holy fucking shit. The simple truth of the Black
text: Bum’s words and Jim’s understanding of them hits Rob
text: like a ton of bricks.
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: (rocked to the core)
dialog: My God, you’re right. You're
dialog: so...right, Jim. What am I doing?
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Oh God, what have I done?
text: Without warning, the door from inside opens and the
text: hulking mass that is JUNIOR fills the doorway.
text: Beneath the rage and retardation, lies the soul of a
text: gentle mongoloid.
text: And it is that gentle beast who stares into his
text: stepfather’s eyes.
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: Moon?
text: Rob can’t help but be overcome with emotion.
speaker_heading: JUNIOR
dialog: (plaintive)
dialog: Moon?
text: A single tear slides down Rob’s cheek as his face
text: opens into a loving smile.
speaker_heading: ROB
dialog: Moon, Junior. Moon.
text: Rob rushes to Junior and they embrace. The word
text: “step” evaporates from their relationship forever.
text: Just then Rebecca appears in the doorway, love and
text: forgiveness filling her eyes.
speaker_heading: REBECCA
dialog: Awww, my boys.
text: Rebecca joins her family in a three-way hug. The
text: veneer of domestic bliss has been restored.
text: A peaceful wind blows through Jim’s hair. The wind
text: of change. Jim walks off into the night like Kang in
dialog: “Kung Fu.”
scene_heading: EXT. LARRY’S HOVEL - NIGHT
text: Jim rings the door bell. He gets some unknown gunk
text: on his finger. Wipes it off just as Larry answers.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Jim, get out of here. I will
dialog: fucking kill you, so get out of
dialog: here.
dialog: Beat.
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (calm)
dialog: I’m sorry, Larry.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: No. Fuck you and your stupid chef
dialog: costume. What are you a chef? A
dialog: fucking cook? Get off my porch,
dialog: you maker of food!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I really am sorry.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: She won’t answer the phone. I
dialog: can’t even tell her the very things
dialog: you just said to me. And it’s
dialog: because of you.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You fucked up my shit, Jim.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Larry, I was so focused on myself
dialog: and my needs that I didn’t give a
dialog: hot fuck about yours.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Yeah. That was crazy, huh? We
dialog: were all popping melons, and shit.
dialog: (thinks to himself)
dialog: Remember that time Rob hit that
dialog: hillbilly with the pizza?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You mean last week?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Yeah. Those were good times, huh?
dialog: Good times...
speaker_heading: MAUREEN (0.S.)
dialog: Times can be good again, Larry.
text: Larry is shocked to see Maureen approaching. But why
dialog: is he surprised?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Maureen?
dialog: 102.
text: He licks his finger and holds it up - no prevailing
text: winds. He sniffs the air repeatedly.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: How were you able to...?
text: He kneels and takes in a good whiff at crotch level.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Nothing!
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: I did some research, Larry. It’s
dialog: gone.
text: Larry, still kneeling, realizes...
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Well, hell, while I’m down here...
text: Maureen instantly turns giddy. She knows what he’s
text: about to ask. He takes her hand in his...
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Maureen Duplexis Nassoon? Will you
dialog: be my bottom chick?
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: No more redheads?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: No more blondes either. Just me
dialog: and you and a dog named Boo.
text: Maureen is so emotional that she can’t speak. All
text: she can do is nod her head ‘yes’. Larry takes her in
text: his arms and tongues her down with both passion and
dialog: love.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (re: his massive erection)
dialog: Look at that, baby. Just look at
dialog: it. No Viagra®. That’s all you.
text: Maureen smiles. She turns to Jim and grabs him up in
text: a hug.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Thank you, Jim! Thank you for
dialog: reuniting us!
text: Jim smiles warmly.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Riunite™ on ice...
dialog: 103.
scene_heading: MAUREEN AND LARRY
dialog: (giving the thumbs up)
dialog: ..-that’s nice!
text: FREEZE FRAME on the thumbs up, a snapshot of
dialog: happiness and joy that could and should be framed and
text: hung in the National Gallery.
speaker_heading: RANDOM VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: YEAH!
scene_heading: INT. VALID INSURANCE - FIRST FLOOR - DAY
text: An endless sea of cubicles filled with people doing
dialog: things and saying things we couldn’t care less about.
text: Except for Schooley and McCorkle, who are wasting
text: time in the corner. Schooley nonchalantly carries a
text: BABY by its ankle. The baby doesn’t seem to mind.
speaker_heading: MCCORKLE
dialog: Cute kid.
speaker_heading: SCHOOLEY
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: MCCORKLE
dialog: Where’d you get it?
speaker_heading: SCHOOLEY
dialog: I bought it.
speaker_heading: MCCORKLE
dialog: You bought it?
speaker_heading: SCHOOLEY
dialog: Yeah. From some Jamaicans.
speaker_heading: MCCORKLE
dialog: How the fuck did you buy a white
dialog: baby from some Jamaicans?
speaker_heading: SCHOOLEY
dialog: I gave them a kilogram.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: MCCORKLE
dialog: You can get a kid for one kilo?
speaker_heading: SCHOOLEY
dialog: Yep. And I did.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Wanna thumb its soft spot?
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: MCCORKLE
dialog: Of course I do.
text: As Schooley holds out the baby and McCorkle moves in,
text: our attention shifts to the door.
text: The theme from AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN SWELLS as
text: Jim, still wearing Baskerville’s gleaming white
text: chef’s uniform, enters the building and strides
text: across the office with purpose.
text: All heads turn as he closes in on Jill’s cubicle...
scene_heading: INT. JILL’S CUBICLE - CONTINUOUS
text: Jill stands, her back to the entrance, feeding
text: documents into a paper shredder. Jim slides up from
text: behind her and kisses her on the neck.
text: Jill turns, reacts with pleasant surprise as she
text: removes the earplugs from her ears. Jim pulls her
text: close and kisses her with a heretofore unseen gusto.
text: They separate, staring lovingly into each other’s
text: eyes. The music RISES IN CRESCENDO and...
dialog: WA-PAPP!!!
text: She wallops Jim square in the nose, sending him
text: tumbling backward on his ass. Blood cascades from
text: his busted snout, saturating his white uniform.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Fuck you, Jim Simmers. Fuck you in
dialog: your clammy white ass!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: (gurgling through blood)
dialog: Jill...
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: I don’t know who you think I am,
dialog: but I am not the kind of girl who
dialog: you can shit all over and then
dialog: expect to get weak in the knees
dialog: just because you come waltzing in
text: here in a sexy uniform..
text: Jim struggles to get his feet.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Jill...
text: She kicks him back down on his ass, then wipes her
text: bloody shoe on his pants.
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: I may not have a perfect ass or a
dialog: magical hoo-hoo, but I have self-
dialog: respect. I have respect, Jim. For
dialog: my SELF!
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Jill...
text: Jim once again tries to stand, dizzy from blood loss.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: And just because you’ve finally had
dialog: a spiritual reawakening, don’t
dialog: think that...
text: Jim clasps a hand over Jill’s mouth.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Just shut up and listen. No more
dialog: games. You’re the one that I want,
dialog: Jill. You're the eight raspberries
dialog: in my cereal. The heavy whipping
dialog: cream in my Munter’s Brown Roast.
dialog: The Strawberry Quick™ on my butter
dialog: stick.
text: Jim gazes longingly into her violet eyes
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’ve known this, in my heart, since
dialog: the first day we met, but I was too
dialog: stupid to understand it. Until now.
text: He removes his hand from her mouth and takes her face
text: in his hands.
dialog: Jill is
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I love you, Jill. And I mean it.
dialog: And I believe we are meant to try
dialog: and see if we can be together and
dialog: then be okay with it if it doesn’t
dialog: work out.
dialog: apoplectic.
speaker_heading: JILL
dialog: Wow. I think I just threw up in my
text: vagina. Just a chunky little bit.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I just hope it was from the heart.
text: She grabs Jim’s bloody face and mashes it against her
text: own in a disgustingly pure yet potentially infectious
text: kiss. Jim scoops her off of her feet and...
dialog: 106.
scene_heading: JOE COCKER & JENNIFER WARNES (0.S.)
dialog: (singing)
text: Where the eagles cry, on a mountain
dialog: high...
scene_heading: INT. VALID INSURANCE - FIRST FLOOR - CONTINUOUS
text: ..-carries her out of her cubicle and across the
text: floor of the main office.
text: INTERCUT with REACTION SHOTS of all the people we
dialog: haven’t seen for, like, half the movie or more:
scene_heading: CO-WORKER 2: THE SPAWNING
text: drops his bagel, shocked.
speaker_heading: MR. WHITEMAN
text: smiles, nods in approval.
speaker_heading: BLAH-BLAH
text: pumps his fist ‘right ON’!
speaker_heading: BLAKE HENDERSON
text: dressed in overalls, peering in the window from
text: behind a push mower. He can’t help but smile.
dialog: And finally...
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
text: looking down from the second tier. After a moment,
text: she can’t help but collapse into a beaming smile.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Way to go, Paula!
text: She begins to clap...
speaker_heading: OLIVIA (CONT'D)
dialog: Way to go!
text: The office erupts in APPLAUSE.
text: We follow Jim as he carries Jill toward the exit.
text: Just as they are framed in the warm glow of the sun
text: spilling through the door, Jill reaches up and grabs
text: the chef’s hat from Jim’s head and gingerly places it
text: on her own head.
dialog: 107.
text: Jill smiles through the blood on her face. Jim
text: matches her smile and...
speaker_heading: FREEZE FRAME.
speaker_heading: RANDOM VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: YEAH! FUCKING YEAH!
dialog: And with that, we...
scene_heading: FADE THE FUCK OUT:
dialog: To Whom It May Concern:
text: The Robotard 8000™ is not currently interested in writing anything for free. However, it is
dialog: willing to write any of the following projects for money:
text: Born Lazy — A heartwarming tale about the laziest man on Earth being forced to get a job.
text: Wedding Crashers 2 - Those two crazy guys are at it again, and this time WE’RE writing it.
text: The Whale — A nobody is mistaken for a high roller in Las Vegas. Hilarity ensues.
dialog: Volquako! - When one natural disaster isn’t enough...two may be too many.
dialog: Homo Ski Movie - Wo explanation necessary. It writes itself.
dialog: It thanks you for your consideration(s) of its various and sundry projects as per its
text: conversations with itself.
scene_heading: *Contact with The Robotard 8000 may be initaited via e-mail at mongo@TheRobotard8000.com
dialog: 
