dialog: 
speaker_heading: BARRY LYNDON
dialog: A
dialog: Screenplay
dialog: by
dialog: Stanley Kubrick
dialog: Based on the novel by
dialog: William Makepeace Thackeray
dialog: February 18, 1973
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - DAY
text: Brief shot of duel.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My father, who was well-known to the
dialog: best circles in this kingdom under
dialog: the name of roaring Harry James, was
dialog: killed in a duel, when I was fifteen
dialog: years old.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN - DAY
text: Mrs. James, talking with a suitor; Roderick, at a
dialog: distance.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My mother, after her husband's
dialog: death, and her retirement, lived in
dialog: such a way as to defy slander. She
dialog: refused all offers of marriage,
dialog: declaring that she lived now for her
dialog: son only, and for the memory of her
dialog: departed saint.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: Mother and son walking together.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My mother was the most beautiful
dialog: women of her day. But if she was
dialog: proud of her beauty, to do her
dialog: justice, she was still more proud of
dialog: her son, and has said a thousand
dialog: times to me that I was the
dialog: handsomest fellow in the world.
scene_heading: EXT. CHURCH - DAY
text: Mother and son entering church.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The good soul's pleasure was to
dialog: dress me; and on Sundays and
dialog: Holidays, I turned out in a velvet
text: coat with a silver-hilted sword by
text: my side, and a gold garter at my
dialog: knee as fine as any lord in the
dialog: land. As we walked to church on
dialog: Sundays, even the most envious souls
dialog: would allow that there was not a
text: prettier pair in the kingdom.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY
text: A picnic. The Dugan family. Roderick.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My uncle's family consisted of ten
dialog: children, and one of them was the
dialog: cause of all my early troubles; this
dialog: was the belle of the family, my
dialog: cousin, Miss Dorothy Dugan, by name.
scene_heading: EXT. DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY
text: A sprawling run-down Irish manor house with large garden,
text: stables, barn and farm.
text: Idealized images of Dorothy.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Ah! That first affair, how well one
dialog: remembers it! What a noble
dialog: discovery it is that the boy makes
text: when he finds himself actually and
dialog: truly in love with some one! A lady
dialog: who is skilled in dancing or singing
dialog: never can perfect herself without a
dialog: deal of study in private. So it is
dialog: with the dear creatures who are
dialog: skilled in coquetting. Dorothy, for
dialog: instance, was always practicing, and
dialog: she would take poor me to rehearse
dialog: her accomplishments upon...
text: Dorothy talking with the exciseman.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: ... or the exciseman, when he came
dialog: his rounds.
text: Dorothy talking to the steward.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: ... or the steward.
text: Dorothy sitting under a tree with the curate, reading a
dialog: book.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: ... or the poor curate.
text: Dorothy talking to the apothecary's lad.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: ... or the young apothecary's lad
dialog: from Dugan's Town whom I recollect
dialog: beating once for that very reason.
text: Roderick, fighting with apothecary's lad.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The torments of jealousy she made me
dialog: endure were horrible.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY
text: Dorothy, like a greyhound released from days of
text: confinement, and given the freedom of the fields at last,
text: runs at top-speed, left and right, back and forth,
text: returning every moment to Roderick.
text: She runs and runs until she is out of breath, and then
text: laughs at the astonishment which keeps Roderick motionless
text: and staring at her.
text: After catching her breath, and wiping her forehead, she
text: challenges Roderick to a race.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I accept, but I insist on a wager.
dialog: The loser must do whatever the
dialog: winner pleases.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Agreed.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Do you see the gate at the end of
dialog: the field? The first to touch it
dialog: will be the winner.
text: They line up together and start on a count of three.
text: Dorothy uses all her strength, but Roderick holds back,
text: and Dorothy touches the gate five or six paces ahead of
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I was certain to win, but I meant to
dialog: lose to see what she would order me
dialog: to do.
text: Dorothy catches her breath, thinking of the penalty. Then
text: she goes behind the trees and, a few second later, comes
dialog: out and says:
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Your penalty is to find a cherry-
dialog: colored ribbon which I have hidden
dialog: somewhere on my person. You are
dialog: free to look for it anywhere you
dialog: will, and I will think very little
dialog: of you if you do not find it.
text: They sit down on the grass. Roderick searches her
text: pockets, the fold of her short bodice and her skirt, then
text: her shoes; then he turns up her skirt, slowly and
text: circumspectly, as high as her garters, which she wears
text: upon the knee. He unfastens them and finds nothing; he
text: draws down her skirt and gropes under her armpits. The
text: tickling makes her laugh.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I feel the ribbon.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Then you must get it.
text: Roderick has to unlace her bodice and touch her pretty
text: breasts, over which his hand must pass to reach it.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Why are you shaking?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
text: With pleasure at finding the ribbon.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY
text: Military review. One hundred English troops, a few
text: mounted officers, a small military band, fifty local
dialog: people.
dialog: The Dugan family, Roderick and his mother, Captains Best
dialog: and Grogan.
text: Roderick admires the troops in their splendid uniforms.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: About this time, the United Kingdom
dialog: was in a state of great excitement
dialog: from the threat generally credited
text: of a French invasion. The noblemen
dialog: and people of condition in that and
dialog: all other parts of the kingdom
dialog: showed their loyalty by raising
dialog: regiments of horse and foot to
dialog: resist the invaders. How I envied
dialog: them. The whole country was alive
dialog: with war's alarums; the three
text: kingdoms ringing with military
dialog: music, while poor I was obliged to
dialog: stay at home in my fustian jacket
dialog: and sigh for fame in secret.
scene_heading: INT. BALLROOM AT FENCIBLES - NIGHT
text: Dorothy and Roderick entering.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: Once, the officers of the Kilwangen
dialog: regiment gave a grand ball to which
dialog: Dorothy persuaded my to take her.
text: Several cuts depicting the evening.
text: Dorothy ignores Roderick; dances, chats, laughs, drinks
text: punch, and finally, strolls outside with Captain Best.
text: Roderick makes a half-hearted try at dancing with Miss
dialog: Clancy.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I have endured torments in my life,
dialog: but none like that. Some of the
dialog: prettiest girls there offered to
dialog: console me, for I was the best
dialog: dancer in the room, but I was too
dialog: wretched, and so remained alone all
dialog: night in a state of agony. I did
dialog: not care for drink, or know the
dialog: dreadful comfort of it in those
dialog: days; but I thought of killing
dialog: myself and Dorothy, and most
dialog: certainly of making away with
dialog: Captain Best.
scene_heading: EXT. FENCIBLES BALLROOM - DAWN
text: The guests leaving and saying their goodbyes.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: At last, and at morning, the ball
dialog: was over.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAWN
text: Dorothy and Roderick on horseback together.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Sure it's a bitter night, Roderick
dialog: dear, and you'll catch cold without
dialog: a handkerchief to your neck.
dialog: To this sympathetic remark, from the pillion, the saddle
dialog: made no reply.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Did you and Miss Clancy have a
dialog: pleasant evening, Roderick? You
dialog: were together, I saw, all night.
text: To this, the saddle only replies by grinding his teeth,
text: and giving a lash to Daisy.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Oh! Mercy, you make Daisy rear and
dialog: throw me, you careless creature,
dialog: you.
text: The pillion had by this got her arm around the saddle's
text: waist, and gave it the gentlest squeeze in the world.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I hate Miss Clancy, you know I do!
dialog: And I only danced with her because
dialog: -- because -- the person with whom I
dialog: intended to dance chose to be
dialog: engaged the whole night.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: I had not been in the room five
dialog: minutes before I was engaged for
dialog: every single set.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Were you obliged to dance five times
text: with Captain Best, and then stroll
dialog: out with him into the garden?
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: I don't care a fig for Captain Best;
text: he dances prettily to be sure, and
dialog: is a pleasant rattle of a man. He
dialog: looks well in his regimentals, too;
dialog: and if he chose to ask me to dance,
dialog: how could I refuse him?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: But you refused me, Dorothy.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Oh! I can dance with you any day,
dialog: and to dance with your own cousin at
dialog: a ball as if you could find no other
dialog: partner. Besides, Roderick, Captain
dialog: Best's a man, and you are only a
dialog: boy, and you haven't a guinea in the
dialog: world.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: If ever I meet him again, you shall
dialog: see which is the best man of the
dialog: two. I'll fight him with sword or
text: with pistol, captain as he is.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: But Captain Best is already known as
text: a valiant soldier, and is famous as
dialog: a man of fashion in London. It is
dialog: mighty well of you to fight farmers'
dialog: boys, but to fight an Englishman is
dialog: a very different matter.
text: Roderick falls silent.
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL BRIDGE OVER A STREAM - DAWN
text: They come to an old, high bridge, over a stream,
text: sufficiently deep and rocky.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Suppose, now, Roderick, you, who are
dialog: such a hero, was passing over the
text: bridge and the enemy on the other
dialog: side.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I'd draw my sword, and cut my way
dialog: through them.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: What, with me on the pillion? Would
dialog: you kill poor me?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Well, then, I'll tell you what I'd
dialog: do. I'd jump Daisy into the river,
dialog: and swim you both across, where no
dialog: enemy could follow us.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Jump twenty feet! You wouldn't dare
dialog: to do any such thing on Daisy.
dialog: There's the captain's horse, Black
dialog: George, I've heard say that Captain
dialog: Bes --
text: She never finished the word for, maddened by the continual
text: recurrence of that odious monosyllable, Roderick shouts:
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Hold tight to my waist!
text: And, giving Daisy the spur, springs with Dorothy over the
text: parapet, into the deeper water below.
text: The horse's head sinks under, the girl screams as she
text: sinks, and screams as she rises.
text: Roderick lands her, half-fainting, on the shore.
scene_heading: INT. MOTHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY
text: Various cuts showing illness and convalescence.
text: Roderick feverish: the doctor taking his pulse.
text: Mother brings a tray of food.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I went home, and was ill speedily of
dialog: a fever, which kept me to my bed for
dialog: a week.
text: Dorothy visiting him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Dorothy visited me only once, but I
dialog: quitted my couch still more
dialog: violently in love than I had been
dialog: ever before.
scene_heading: EXT. DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY
text: The air is fresh and bright, and the birds sing loud
text: amidst the green trees. Roderick is elated, and springs
text: down the road, as brisk as a young fawn.
text: He encounters an orderly whistling "Roast Beef of Old
text: England," as he cleans down a cavalry horse.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Whose horse, fellow, is that?
speaker_heading: ORDERLY
dialog: Feller, indeed! The horse belongs
dialog: to my captain, and he's a better
dialog: fellow nor you any day.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I did not stop to break his bones,
dialog: as I would on another occasion, for
dialog: a horrible suspicion had come across
dialog: me, and I made for the garden as
dialog: quickly as I could.
text: Roderick see Captain Best and Dorothy pacing the path
text: together. Her arm is under his, and he is fondling and
text: squeezing her little hand which lies closely nestling
text: against his arm.
text: Some distance beyond them is Captain Grogan, who is paying
text: court to Dorothy's sister, Mysie.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The fact is that, during the week of
dialog: my illness, no other than Captain
dialog: Best was staying at Castle Dugan,
dialog: and making love to Miss Dorothy in
dialog: form.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: No, Dorothy, except for you and four
dialog: others, I vow before all the gods,
dialog: my heart had never felt the soft
dialog: flame.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Ah, you men, you men, John, your
dialog: passion is not equal to ours. We
dialog: are like -- like some plant I've
dialog: read of -- we bear but one flower,
dialog: and then we die!
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: Do you mean you never felt an
dialog: inclination for another?
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Never, my John, but for thee! How
dialog: can you ask me such a question?
text: Raising her hand to his lips.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: Darling Dorothea!
text: Roderick rushes into view, drawing his little sword.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I pulled out a knot of cherry-
dialog: colored ribbons, which she had given
dialog: me out of her breast, and which
dialog: somehow I always wore upon me, and
text: flung them in Captain Best's face,
dialog: and rushed out with my little sword
dialog: drawn.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: She's a liar -- she's a liar,
dialog: Captain Best! Draw, sir, and defend
dialog: yourself, if you are a man!
text: Roderick leaps at Captain Best, and collars him, while
text: Dorothy makes the air echo with her screams.
text: Captain Grogan and Mysie hasten up.
text: Though Roderick is a full growth of six feet, he is small
text: by the side of the enormous English captain.
text: Best turns very red at the attack upon him, and slips back
text: clutching at his sword.
text: Dorothy, in an agony of terror, flings herself round him,
dialog: screaming:
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Captain Best, for Heaven's sake,
dialog: spare the child -- he is but an
dialog: infant.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: And ought to be whipped for his
dialog: impudence, but never fear, Miss
dialog: Dugan, I shall not touch him, your
dialog: favorite is safe from me.
text: So saying, he stoops down and picks up the bunch of
text: ribbons, which Roderick had flung at Dorothy's feet, and
text: handing it to her, says in a sarcastic tone:
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: When ladies make presents to
dialog: gentlemen, it is time for other
dialog: gentlemen to retire...
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Good heavens, Best! He is but a boy
dialog: and don't signify any more than my
dialog: parrot or lap-dog. Mayn't I give a
dialog: bit of ribbon to my own cousin?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (roaring)
dialog: I'm a man, and will prove it.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: You are perfectly welcome, miss, as
dialog: many yards as you like.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: Monster! Your father was a tailor,
dialog: and you are always thinking of the
dialog: shop. But I'll have my revenge, I
dialog: will! Roddy, will you see me
dialog: insulted?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Indeed, Miss Dorothy, I intend to
dialog: have his blood as sure as my name's
dialog: Roderick.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: I'll send for the usher to cane you,
dialog: little boy, but as for you, miss, I
dialog: have the honor to wish you a good
dialog: day.
text: Best takes off his hat with much ceremony, and makes a low
text: bow, and is just walking off, when Michael, Roderick's
text: cousin, comes up, whose ear has likewise been caught by
text: the scream.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Hoity-toity! John Best, what's the
dialog: matter here?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Dugan.
dialog: I have had enough of Miss Dugan here
dialog: and your Irish ways. I ain't used
dialog: to 'em, sir.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (good-humoredly)
dialog: Well, well! What is it? We'll make
dialog: you used to our ways, or adopt
dialog: English ones.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: It's not the English way, for ladies
dialog: to have two lovers, and, so, Mr.
dialog: Dugan, I'll thank you to pay me the
dialog: sum you owe me, and I resign all
dialog: claims to this young lady. If she
dialog: has a fancy for school-boys, let her
dialog: take 'em, sir.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Pooh! Pooh! Best, you are joking.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: I never was more in earnest.
dialog: Best exits.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (in a towering rage)
dialog: You -- you! Hang you for a meddling
dialog: brat, your hand is in everybody's
dialog: pie. What business had you to come
text: brawling and quarreling here, with
dialog: a gentleman who has fifteen hundred
dialog: a-year?
text: Michael runs after Best.
speaker_heading: DOROTHY
dialog: (gasps)
dialog: Oh, I shall die; I know I shall. I
dialog: shall never leave this spot.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: (whisper to Dorothy)
text: The Captain is gone.
text: Dorothy, giving him an indignant look, jumps up and walks
text: towards the house.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: (in a soothing tone
dialog: to Roderick)
dialog: This is a pretty way to recommend
dialog: yourself to the family.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (shouts after
dialog: Michael)
text: The man that marries Dorothy Dugan
dialog: must first kill me -- do you mind
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (shouting back from
dialog: a distance)
dialog: Pooh, sir. Kill you -- flog you,
dialog: you mean! I'll send for Nick the
dialog: huntsman to do it.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: You are a gallant lad, and I like
dialog: your spirit. But what Dugan says is
dialog: true. It's a hard thing to give a
dialog: lad counsel who is in such a far-
dialog: gone state as you; but, believe me,
dialog: I know the world, and if you will
dialog: but follow my advice, you won't
dialog: regret having taken it. Dorothy
dialog: Dugan has not a penny; you are not a
dialog: whit richer. And, my poor boy,
dialog: don't you see -- though it's a hard
dialog: matter to see -- that she's a flirt,
dialog: and does not care a pin for you or
dialog: Best either?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Dorothy might love me or not, as she
dialog: likes, but Best will have to fight
dialog: me before he marries her!
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: Faith, I think you are a lad that's
dialog: likely to keep your word.
text: He looks hard at Roderick for a second to two, then he
text: walks away, humming a tune, looking back at Roderick as he
text: goes through the old gate out of the garden.
text: When Grogan is gone, Roderick is quite alone, and he
text: flings himself down on the bench where Dorothy had made
dialog: believe to faint, and had left her handkerchief and the
text: ribbons and, taking them up, hides his face in them, and
text: bursts into a passion of tears.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I must have sat for some hours
dialog: bemoaning myself on the garden-bench,
dialog: for the dinner-bell clanged as usual
dialog: at three o'clock, which wakened me
dialog: from my reverie.
scene_heading: EXT. DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY
text: As Roderick passes the courtyard, he sees the Captain's
text: saddle still hanging up at the stable-door, and his odious
text: red-coated brute of a servant, swaggering with the
text: scullion-girls and kitchen people.
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: The Englishman's still there, Master
text: Roderick. He's there in the parlor.
dialog: Go in, and don't let 'im browbeat
dialog: you, Master Roderick.
scene_heading: INT. DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY
text: Roderick enters and takes his place at the bottom of the
text: big table; the butler speedily brings him a cover.
speaker_heading: UNCLE
dialog: Hello, Roddy, my boy! Up and well?
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: AUNT
dialog: He'd better be home with his mother.
speaker_heading: UNCLE
dialog: Don't mind her. It's the cold goose
dialog: she ate for breakfast -- didn't
dialog: agree with her. Take a glass of
dialog: spirits, Mrs. Dugan, to Roderick's
dialog: health.
text: It is evident that his uncle doesn't know of what
text: happened, but Michael, who is at dinner too, and Harry,
text: and almost all the girls, look exceedingly black and the
text: captain foolish; and Miss Dorothy, who is again by his
text: side, ready to cry. Captain Grogan sits smiling, and
text: Roderick looks on as cold as stone.
text: His uncle is in high good-humor.
speaker_heading: UNCLE
dialog: Dorothy, divide that merry thought
dialog: with the captain! See who'll be
dialog: married first. Jack Best, my dear
dialog: boy, never mind a clean glass for
dialog: the claret, we're short of crystal
dialog: at Castle Dugan; take Dorothy's and
dialog: the wine will taste none the worse.
dialog: Mrs. Dugan and ladies, if you
dialog: please; this is a sort of toast that
dialog: is drunk a great deal too seldom in
dialog: my family, and you'll please to
dialog: receive it with all the honors.
dialog: Here's to Captain and Mrs. John
dialog: Best, and long life to them. Kiss
dialog: her, Jack, you rogue; for faith,
dialog: you've got a treasure.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (spring up)
dialog: His already?!
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: Hold your tongue, you fool -- hold
dialog: your tongue!
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: He has already been slapped in the
dialog: face this morning, Captain John
dialog: Best; he's already been called a
dialog: coward, Captain John Best; and this
dialog: is the way I'll drink his health.
dialog: Here's your health, Captain John
dialog: Best.
text: Roderick flings a glass of claret into his face. The next
text: moment, he is under the table, tripped up by Harry, who
text: hits him a violent cuff on the head; as he goes down, he
text: hardly has time to hear the general screaming and
text: scurrying that is taking place above him, being so fully
text: occupied with kicks, and thumps and curses, with which
text: Harry is belaboring him.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: You fool! You great blundering
dialog: marplot -- you silly beggarly
dialog: brat --
dialog: (a thump at each)
dialog: Hold your tongue!
text: When Roderick gets up from under the table, the ladies are
text: all gone; but he has the satisfaction of seeing the
text: captain's nose is bleeding, as his is -- Best is cut
text: across the bridge, and his beauty spoiled forever.
speaker_heading: UNCLE
dialog: In Heaven's name, what does all the
dialog: row mean? Is the boy in fever
dialog: again?
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: (turning to his
dialog: father)
dialog: The fact is, sir, that the young
dialog: monkey has fallen in love with
text: Dorothy, and finding her and the
dialog: captain mighty sweet in the garden
dialog: today, he was for murdering Jack
dialog: Best.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: (bristling up)
dialog: And, I'll tell you what, Mr. Dugan,
dialog: I've been insulted grossly in this
dialog: house. I ain't at all satisfied
dialog: with these here ways of going on.
dialog: I'm an Englishman, I am, and a man
dialog: of property; and I -- I --
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: If you're insulted, and not
dialog: satisfied, remember there's two of
dialog: us, Best.
text: On which, the captain falls to washing his nose in water,
dialog: and answering never a word.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (in dignified tone)
dialog: Mr. Best may also have satisfaction
dialog: any time he pleases, by calling on
dialog: Roderick James, Esquire, of
dialog: Jamesville.
text: His uncle bursts out laughing, and in this laugh, Captain
text: Grogan joins.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Captain Grogan, I beg you to
dialog: understand that, for my cousin
dialog: Harry, who has been my best friend
dialog: through life, I could put up with
dialog: rough treatment from him; yet, even
dialog: that sort of treatment I will bear
dialog: from him no longer; and any other
dialog: person who ventures on the like will
dialog: not like the cost. Mr. Best knows
dialog: that fact very well; and, if he's
dialog: man, he'll know where to find me.
speaker_heading: UNCLE
dialog: It is getting late, and your mother
dialog: will be anxious about you. One of
dialog: you had better go home with him.
dialog: (turning to his sons)
dialog: Or the lad may be playing more
dialog: pranks.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: Both of us ride home with Best here.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: I'm not afraid of highwaymen. My
dialog: man is armed, and so am I.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: You know the use of arms very well,
dialog: Best, and no one can doubt your
dialog: courage; but Michael and I will see
dialog: you home for all that.
speaker_heading: UNCLE
dialog: Why, you'll not be home till
dialog: morning, boys. Kilwangan's a good
dialog: ten miles from here.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: We'll sleep in Best's quarters.
dialog: We're going to stop a week there.
dialog: And, in another week, my boy.
text: And here, Harry whispers something in the Captain's ear.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: I'll go home with the boy.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - LATE DAY
text: Grogan walks with Roderick.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: A pretty day's work of it you have
dialog: made, Master Roderick. Knowing your
dialog: uncle to be distressed for money,
text: and try and break off a match which
dialog: will bring fifteen hundred a-year
dialog: into the family? Best has promised
dialog: to pay off the four thousand pounds
dialog: which is bothering your uncle so.
text: He takes a girl without a penny -- a
text: girl that has been flinging herself
dialog: at the head of every man in these
dialog: parts these ten years past, and
text: missing them all, and a boy who
dialog: ought to be attached to your uncle
dialog: as to your father.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: And so I am.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: And this is the return you make for
dialog: his kindness! Didn't he harbor you
dialog: in his house when your father died,
dialog: and hasn't he given you and your
dialog: mother, rent-free, your fine house
dialog: of Jamesville yonder?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Mark this, come what will of it, I
dialog: swear I will fight the man who
text: pretends to the hand of Dorothy
dialog: Dugan. I'll follow him if it's into
text: the church, and meet him there.
dialog: I'll have his blood, or he shall
dialog: have mine. Will you take my message
dialog: to him, and arrange the meeting?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: Well, if it must be, it must. For a
dialog: young fellow, you are the most
dialog: bloodthirsty I ever saw. No
dialog: officer, bearing His Majesty's
dialog: commission, can receive a glass of
text: wine on his nose, without resenting
dialog: it -- fight you must, and Best is a
text: huge, strong fellow.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: He'll give the better mark. I am
text: not afraid of him.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: In faith, I believe you are not; for
dialog: a lad I never saw more game in my
dialog: life. Give me a kiss, my dear boy.
dialog: You're after my own soul. As long
dialog: as Jack Grogan lives, you shall
dialog: never want a friend or a second.
text: They embrace.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Poor fellow! He was shot six months
dialog: afterwards, at Minden, and I lost
dialog: thereby a kind friend. But we don't
dialog: know what is in store for us, and
dialog: that's a blessing.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - LATE DAY
text: Mother greeting Roderick and Captain Grogan.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: In spite of my precautions to
dialog: secrecy, I half-suspected that my
dialog: mother knew all from the manner in
dialog: which she embraced me on my arrival,
dialog: and received our guest, Captain
dialog: Grogan.
text: His mother looks a little anxious and flushed and, every
text: now and then, gazes very hard into the Captain's face.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: But she would not say a word about
dialog: the quarrel, for she had a noble
dialog: spirit, and would as lief have seen
dialog: any one of her kindred hanged as
text: shirking from the field of honor.
scene_heading: INT. MOTHER'S HOUSE - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Roderick waking up.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I never slept sounder in my life,
dialog: though I woke a little earlier than
dialog: usual, and you may be sure my first
dialog: thought was of the event of the day,
dialog: for which I was fully prepared.
text: Roderick at table with paper and ink.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And now I sat down and wrote a
dialog: couple of letters; they might be the
dialog: last, thought I, that I should ever
dialog: write in my life.
dialog: See him write: "Dearest Mother."
scene_heading: INT. MOTHER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Then I went down to breakfast, where
dialog: my mother was waiting for me, you
dialog: may be sure. We did not say a
dialog: single word about what was taking
dialog: place.
text: Roderick eats his breakfast with a good appetite; but in
text: helping himself to salt, spills it, on which his mother
text: starts up with a scream.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Thank God, it's fallen towards me!
text: And then, her heart being too full, she leaves the room.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Ah! They have their faults, those
dialog: mothers; but are there any other
dialog: women like them?
text: There is an elegant, silver-mounted sword that hangs on
text: the mantelpiece under the picture of Roderick's late
dialog: father.
text: A pair of pistols hang on each side of the picture.
text: Roderick takes down the sword and pistols, which are
text: bright and well-oiled, and collects flints, balls and
dialog: gunpowder.
scene_heading: EXT. MOTHER'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Captain Grogan and Orderly arrive.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Have you taken my message to him?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
text: The meeting is arranged. Captain
dialog: Best is waiting for you now.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: My mare is saddled and ready; who's
dialog: the captain's second?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: Your cousins go out with him.
text: Roderick and Grogan, and the Orderly ride off.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I didn't take leave of Mrs. James.
text: The curtains of her bedroom-windows
text: were down, and they didn't move as
dialog: we mounted and trotted off.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY
text: They ride their horses at a leisurely pace.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: That's a very handsome sword you
dialog: have there.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: It was with this sword that my late
dialog: father, Harry James, God rest his
dialog: soul, met Sir Huddelstone
dialog: Fuddelstone, the Hampshire baronet,
dialog: and was fatally run through the
dialog: neck. He was quite in the wrong,
dialog: having insulted Lady Fuddelstone,
dialog: when in liquor, at the Brentford
dialog: Assembly. But, like a gentleman, he
text: scorned to apologize.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: And now you risk the same fate. If
dialog: you are killed, your mother is all
dialog: alone in the world.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I am Harry James' son, and will act
dialog: as becomes my name and quality.
scene_heading: EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DAY
text: Harry, Michael and the Captain are already there. Best,
text: flaming in red regimentals, a big a monster as ever led a
text: grenadier company. The party are laughing together.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (to Captain Grogan)
dialog: I hope to spoil this sport, and
dialog: trust to see this sword of mine in
dialog: that big bully's body.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: Oh, it's with pistols we fight. You
dialog: are no match for Best with the
dialog: sword.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I'll match any man with the sword.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: But swords are today impossible;
dialog: Captain Best is -- is lame. He
dialog: knocked his knee against the
text: swinging park gate last night, as he
dialog: was riding home, and can scarce move
dialog: it now.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Not against Castle Dugan gate, that
dialog: has been off the hinges these ten
dialog: years.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
text: It must have been some other gate.
text: They alight from their horses, and join and salute the
dialog: other gentlemen.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: I have just explained to Mister
dialog: James that Captain Best is lame, and
dialog: that swords are impossible.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: Oh, yes! Dead lame.
text: Harry comes up to shake Roderick by the hand, while
text: Captain Best takes off his hat, and turns extremely red.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: And very lucky for you, Roderick, my
dialog: boy. You were a dead man else, for
dialog: he is a devil of a fellow -- isn't
dialog: he, Grogan?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: A regular Turk. I never yet knew
dialog: the man who stood to Captain Best.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: Hang the business. I hate it. I'm
dialog: ashamed of it. Say you're sorry,
dialog: Roderick. You can easily say that.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: If the young feller will go to
dialog: Dublin, as proposed...
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I'm not sorry -- I'll not apologize
dialog: -- and I'll as soon go to Dublin as
dialog: to hell!
text: Grogan takes him aside.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: Look here, Roderick, my boy; this is
dialog: silly business. The girl will marry
dialog: Best, mark my words; and as sure as
dialog: she does, you'll forget her. You
dialog: are but a boy. Best is willing to
dialog: consider you as such. Dublin's a
dialog: fine place, and if you have a mind
dialog: to take a ride thither and see the
dialog: town for a month, here are twenty
dialog: guineas at your service. Make Best
dialog: an apology, and be off.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
text: A man of honor dies, but never
dialog: apologizes. I'll see the captain
dialog: hanged before I apologize.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: (with a laugh to
dialog: Grogan)
dialog: There's nothing else for it. Take
dialog: your ground, Grogan -- twelve paces,
dialog: I suppose?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN BEST
dialog: (in a big voice)
dialog: Ten, sir, and make them short ones,
dialog: do you hear, Captain Grogan?
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: Don't bully, Mr. Best. Here are the
dialog: pistols.
dialog: (with some emotion
dialog: to Roderick)
dialog: God bless you, my boy; and when I
dialog: count three, fire.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: This is not one of my pistols.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: They are all right, never fear.
dialog: It's one of mine. Yours will serve,
dialog: if they are needed, for the next
dialog: round.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
text: Roderick, fire at his neck -- hit
dialog: him there under the gorget; see how
text: the fool shows himself open.
text: Michael, who has not spoken a word, Harry, and the Captain
text: retire to one side, and Harry gives the signal.
text: It is slowly given, and Roderick has the leisure to cover
dialog: his man well.
text: Captain Best changes color and trembles as the numbers are
dialog: given.
text: At "three" both pistols go off. Best gives a most
text: horrible groan, staggers backwards and falls.
speaker_heading: THE SECONDS
dialog: (crying out)
dialog: He's down! He's down!
text: Running towards him, Harry lifts him up -- Michael takes
text: his head.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: He's hit here, in the neck.
text: Laying open his coat, blood is seen gurgling from under
text: his gorget.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: How is it with you?
text: The unfortunate man does not answer, but when the support
text: of Harry's arm is withdrawn from his back, groans once
text: more and falls backwards.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (with a scowl)
text: The young fellow has begun well.
dialog: You had better ride off, young sir,
dialog: before the police are up. They had
dialog: wind of the business before we left
dialog: Kilwangan.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Is he quite dead?
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Quite dead.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: Then the world's rid of a coward.
dialog: It's all over with him, Roddy -- he
text: doesn't stir.
text: He gives the huge prostrate body a scornful kick with his
dialog: foot.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: We are not cowards, Grogan, whatever
dialog: he was! Let's get the boy off as
dialog: quick as we may. Your man shall go
dialog: for a cart, and take away the body
dialog: of this unhappy gentleman. This has
dialog: been a sad day's work for our
dialog: family, Roderick James, and you have
dialog: robbed us of fifteen-hundred a-year.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: It was Dorothy did it.
text: Roderick takes the ribbons she gave him out of his
text: waistcoat, and the letter, and flings them down on the
dialog: body of Captain Best.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: There! Take her those ribbons.
dialog: She'll know what they mean; that's
text: all that's left of her of two lovers
dialog: she had and ruined.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: And now, in Heaven's name, get the
text: youngster out of the way.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: I'll go with you.
text: They mount up and gallop off.
scene_heading: EXT. MOTHER'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Upon seeing Roderick and Harry ride up, his mother, who
text: has been waiting outside, rushes to her son with wild
text: screams of joy. He dismounts, and she kisses and embraces
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I need not tell you how great was my
text: mother's pride and exultation when
text: she heard from Harry's lips the
dialog: account of my behavior at the duel.
scene_heading: INT. MOTHER'S HOUSE - PARLOR - DAY
text: Still much excitement and hustle and bustle.
speaker_heading: HARRY
text: The boy must go into hiding, for a
dialog: short time anyway. Dublin is the
dialog: best place for him to go, and there
text: wait until matters are blown over.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Dublin? But the poor lad has never
dialog: been away from home. He will be as
dialog: safe here as in Dublin.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: I wish that were true, Auntie dear,
dialog: but I'm afraid the bailiffs may
dialog: already be on their way from
dialog: Kilwangan.
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: His mother is rushing about and packing a valise. Harry
text: sits on the bed.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Harry persisted in the necessity of
dialog: instant departure, in which
dialog: argument, as I was anxious to see
dialog: the world, I must confess, I sided
dialog: with him; and my mother was brought
dialog: to see that, in our small house, in
text: the midst of a village, escape would
dialog: be impossible, and capture would be
dialog: impossible to avoid.
scene_heading: INT. MOTHER'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: His mother takes out a stocking from her escritoire, and
dialog: gives Roderick twenty golden guineas.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: (gravely)
dialog: Roderick, my darling, my wild boy, I
dialog: have forebodings that our separation
dialog: is to be a long one. I spent most
dialog: of all night consulting the cards
dialog: regarding your fate in the duel, and
dialog: all signs betoke a separation. Here
dialog: is twenty guineas -- all that I have
dialog: in the world -- and I want you to
dialog: keep your father's sword and
dialog: pistols, which you have known to use
dialog: so like a man.
scene_heading: EXT. MOTHER'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Roderick's departure.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: She hurried my departure now, though
dialog: her heart, I know, was full, and
dialog: almost in half-an-hour from my
dialog: arrival at home, I was once more on
text: the road again, with the wide world,
dialog: as it were, before me.
text: Roderick waves. His mother cries.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH ROAD TO DUBLIN - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: No lad of seventeen is very sad who
dialog: has liberty for the first time, and
dialog: twenty guineas in his pocket; and I
dialog: rode away, thinking, I confess, not
dialog: so much of the kind of mother left
text: alone, and of the home behind me, as
dialog: of tomorrow, and all the wonders it
dialog: would bring.
text: Roderick happily riding down the road.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I had no doubts of the future;
dialog: thinking that a man of my person,
dialog: parts, and courage, could make his
dialog: way anywhere. So I rode on, singing
dialog: to myself, or chatting with the
text: passersby; and all the girls along
dialog: the road said, "God save me, for a
dialog: clever gentleman."
text: Farm girls in the fields flirting with him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: As for thoughts of Dorothy Dugan,
text: there seemed to be a gap of a half-
dialog: a-score of years.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD TO DUBLIN - DAY
text: A well-armed gentleman dressed in green, and a gold cord,
text: with a patch on his eye, and riding a powerful mare, puts
text: his horse alongside.
speaker_heading: ARMED GENTLEMAN
dialog: Good day to you, young sir.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Good morning.
speaker_heading: ARMED GENTLEMAN
dialog: Where are you bound for?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (after a long look at
dialog: his companion)
dialog: That is none of your business.
speaker_heading: ARMED GENTLEMAN
dialog: Is your mother not afraid on account
dialog: of the highwayman to let one so
dialog: young as you travel?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (pulling out a
dialog: pistol)
dialog: Not at all, sir. I have a pair of
dialog: good pistols that have already done
dialog: execution, and are ready to do it
dialog: again.
text: At this, a pock-marked man coming up, the well-armed
text: gentleman spurs into his bay mare, and leaves Roderick.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD TO DUBLIN - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: A little later on, as I rode towards
dialog: Kilcullen, I saw a crowd of peasant
text: people assembled round a one-horse
dialog: chair, and my friend in green, as I
dialog: thought, making off half-a-mile up
dialog: the hill.
text: A footman howls, at the top of his voice.
speaker_heading: FOOTMAN
dialog: Stop thief!
text: But the country fellows only laugh at his distress, and
dialog: make all sorts of jokes at the adventure which had just
text: befallen.
scene_heading: COUNTRY FELLOW #1
dialog: Sure, you might have kept him off
dialog: with your blunderbush!
scene_heading: COUNTRY FELLOW #2
dialog: O the coward! To let the Captain
dialog: bate you, and he only one eye!
scene_heading: COUNTRY FELLOW #3
dialog: The next time my lady travels, she'd
dialog: better leave you at home!
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: What is this noise, fellows?
text: Roderick rides up amongst them, and seeing the lady in the
text: carriage, very pale and frightened, gives a slash of his
text: whip, and bids the red-shanked ruffians keep off.
text: Pulling off his hat, and bringing his mare up in a prance
text: to the chair-window.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: What has happened, madam, to annoy
dialog: your ladyship?
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: Oh, I am grateful to you, sir. I am
dialog: the wife of Captain O'Reilly
dialog: hastening to join him at Dublin. My
text: chair was stopped by a highwayman;
dialog: this great oaf of a servant-man fell
text: down on his knees, armed as he was,
dialog: and though there were thirty people
dialog: in the next field, working, when the
dialog: ruffian attacked, not one of them
dialog: would help but, on the contrary,
dialog: wished him "good luck."
scene_heading: COUNTRY FELLOW #1
dialog: Sure, he's the friend of the poor,
dialog: and good luck to him.
scene_heading: COUNTRY FELLOW #2
dialog: Was it any business of ours?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Be off to your work, you pack of
dialog: rascals, or you will have a good
dialog: taste of my thong.
dialog: (to Mrs. O'Reilly)
dialog: Have you lost much?
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: Everything -- my purse, containing
dialog: upwards of a hundred guineas, my
dialog: jewels, my snuff-boxes, watches.
dialog: And all because this blundering
dialog: coward fell to his knees...
speaker_heading: FOOTMAN
dialog: Be fair, ma'am, them wasn't so much.
dialog: Didn't he return you the thirteen
text: pence in copper, and the watch,
dialog: saying it was only pinchbeck?
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: Don't be insolent, or I'll report
dialog: you to the Captain.
speaker_heading: FOOTMAN
dialog: Sorry, ma'am.
text: He shuffles a few steps away and frowns in the direction
text: that the Captain has vanished.
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: That fool didn't know what was the
dialog: meaning of a hundred-pound bill,
dialog: which was in the pocket-book that
dialog: the fellow took from me.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I am riding to Dublin myself, and if
dialog: your ladyship will allow me the
dialog: honor of riding with you, I shall do
dialog: my best to protect you from further
dialog: mishap.
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: But I shouldn't like to put you to
dialog: such trouble, Mister...?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: O'Higgins... Mohawk O'Higgins.
scene_heading: EXT. ROADSIDE INN - DAY
text: They stop at the inn.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (very gallantly)
dialog: As you have been robbed of your
dialog: purse, may I have permission to lend
dialog: your ladyship a couple of pieces to
dialog: pay any expenses which you might
dialog: incur before reaching your home?
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: That's very kind of you, Mr.
dialog: O'Higgins.
text: He gives her two gold pieces.
scene_heading: INT. INN - DAY
text: Roderick and Mrs. O'Reilly finishing their meal.
text: We will hear dialogue underneath Roderick's voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: How different was her lively rattle
text: to the vulgar wenches at Kilwangan
dialog: assemblies. In every sentence, she
dialog: mentioned a lord or a person of
dialog: quality. To the lady's question
dialog: about my birth and parentage, I
dialog: replied that I was a young gentleman
dialog: of large fortune, that I was going
dialog: to Dublin for my studies, and that
dialog: my mother allowed me five hundred
dialog: per annum.
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: You must be very cautious with
dialog: regard to the company you should
text: meet in Dublin, where rogues and
dialog: adventurers of all countries abound.
dialog: I hope you will do me the honor of
dialog: accepting lodgings in my own house,
dialog: where Captain O'Reilly will welcome
dialog: with delight, my gallant young
dialog: preserver.
text: Paying the bill.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Perhaps had I been a little older in
dialog: the world's experience, I should
dialog: have begun to see that Madame
dialog: O'Reilly was not the person of
dialog: fashion she pretended to be; but, as
dialog: it was, I took all her stories for
dialog: truth, and, when the landlord
dialog: brought the bill for dinner, paid it
text: with the air of a lord. Indeed, she
dialog: made no motion to produce the two
dialog: pieces I had lent her.
scene_heading: EXT. DUBLIN - STREET - NIGHT
text: They ride by.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And so we rode on slowly towards
dialog: Dublin, into which city we made our
text: entrance at nightfall. The rattle
dialog: and splendor of the coaches, the
dialog: flare of the linkboys, the number
dialog: and magnificence of the houses,
dialog: struck me with the greatest wonder;
dialog: though I was careful to disguise
dialog: this feeling.
scene_heading: EXT. O'REILLY HOUSE - DUBLIN - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: We stopped at length at a house of
dialog: rather mean appearance, and were let
dialog: into a passage which had a great
text: smell of supper and punch.
scene_heading: INT. O'REILLY HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Captain O'Reilly, a stout red-faced man, without a
text: periwig, and in a rather tattered nightgown and cap.
text: Roderick and Mrs. O'Reilly.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: Mr. O'Higgins, I cannot say how
dialog: grateful I am for your timely
dialog: assistance to my wife.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I am only sorry that I was unable to
dialog: prevent the villain from carrying
dialog: off all her ladyship's money and
dialog: pearls.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: Mr. O'Higgins, we are in your debt,
dialog: and rest assured, sir, you have
dialog: friends in this house whenever you
dialog: are in Dublin.
dialog: (pours a glass)
dialog: Mister O'Higgins, I wonder if I know
dialog: your good father?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Which O'Higgins do you know? For I
dialog: have never heard your name mentioned
dialog: in my family.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: Oh, I am thinking of the O'Higgins
dialog: of Redmondstown. General O'Higgins
dialog: was a close friend of my wife's dear
dialog: father, Colonel Granby Somerset.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Ah -- I see. No, I'm afraid mine
dialog: are the O'Higgins of Watertown.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: I have heard of them.
text: There are relics of some mutton-chops and onions on a
text: cracked dish before them.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: My love, I wish I had known of your
dialog: coming, for Bob Moriaty and I just
dialog: finished the most delicious venison
dialog: pasty, which His Grace the Lord
dialog: Lieutenant, sent us, with a flash of
dialog: sillery from his own cellar. You
dialog: know the wine, my dear? But as
text: bygones are bygones, and no help for
dialog: them, what say ye to a fine lobster
dialog: and a bottle of as good claret as
dialog: any in Ireland? Betty, clear these
dialog: things from the table, and make the
dialog: mistress and our young friend
dialog: welcome to our home.
text: Captain O'Reilly searches his pockets for some money to
dialog: give to Betty.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr. O'Higgins, but I
dialog: don't seem to have any small change.
dialog: May I borrow a ten-penny piece to
dialog: give to the girl?
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: I have some money, my dear. Here,
dialog: Betty, go to the fishmonger and
dialog: bring back our supper, and mind you
dialog: get the right change.
text: She takes out one of the golden guineas Roderick gave to
dialog: her.
scene_heading: INT. DINNING ROOM - LATER
text: They are eating.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Our supper was seasoned, if not by
dialog: any great elegance, at least by a
dialog: plentiful store of anecdotes,
dialog: concerning the highest personages of
dialog: the city, with whom, according to
dialog: himself, the captain lived on terms
dialog: of the utmost intimacy. Not to be
dialog: behind hand with him, I spoke of my
dialog: own estates and property as if I was
dialog: as rich as a duke.
scene_heading: INT. O'REILLY HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: The couple wishing Roderick goodnight.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Had I been an English lad, the
dialog: appearance of the chamber I occupied
dialog: might, indeed, have aroused
dialog: instantly my suspicion and distrust.
dialog: But we are not particular in Ireland
dialog: on the score of neatness, hence the
dialog: disorder of my bed-chamber did not
dialog: strike me so much.
text: Broken door.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Was there a lock to the door, or a
dialog: hasp to fasten it to?
text: Dress lying over bed.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Though my counterpane was evidently
text: a greased brocade dress of Mrs.
dialog: O'Reilly.
text: Cracked mirror.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And my cracked toilet-glass not much
dialog: bigger than a half-crown, yet I was
dialog: used to these sort of ways in Irish
dialog: houses, and still thought myself to
dialog: be in that of a man of fashion.
text: Drawers, full of junk.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: There was no lock to the drawers,
dialog: which, when they did open, were full
dialog: of my hostess' rouge-pots, shoes,
text: stays, and rags.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - O'REILLY HOUSE - NIGHT
text: In the middle of the night, Mrs. O'Reilly comes to
text: Roderick's room on a flimsy pretext, and in the course of
text: events, he has his first woman.
scene_heading: INT. COACH - DAY
text: Roderick, Captain and Mrs. O'Reilly.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: I needn't ask whether you had a
text: comfortable bed. Young Fred
dialog: Pimpleton slept in it for seven
dialog: months, during which he did me the
dialog: honor to stay with me, and if he was
dialog: satisfied, I don't know who else
dialog: wouldn't be.
scene_heading: EXT. PROMENADE - PHOENIX PARK - DAY
text: Roderick, Captain and Mrs. O'Reilly, their friends.
dialog: Various cuts.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: After breakfast, we drove out to
dialog: Phoenix Park, where numbers of the
dialog: young gentry were known to Mrs.
dialog: O'Reilly, to all of whom she
dialog: presented me in such a complimentary
dialog: way that, before half an hour, I had
dialog: got to be considered as a gentleman
dialog: of great expectations and large
dialog: property.
scene_heading: INT. O'REILLY HOUSE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I had little notion then that I had
dialog: got amongst a set of impostors --
dialog: that Captain O'Reilly was only an
dialog: adventurer, and his lady a person of
dialog: no credit. The fact was, a young
dialog: man could hardly have fallen into
dialog: worse hands than those in which I
dialog: now found myself.
text: An evening of gambling.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Their friends were always welcome on
dialog: payment of a certain moderate sum
dialog: for their dinner after which, you
dialog: may be sure, that cards were not
dialog: wanting, and that the company who
dialog: played did not play for love merely.
text: Various cuts of the characters present.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: What could happen to a man but
dialog: misfortune from associating with
dialog: such company? And in a very, very
dialog: short time I became their prey.
text: Roderick loses two hundred guineas to Captain O'Reilly in
text: a single hand.
text: We see Captain O'Reilly cheat, but Roderick does not.
text: He pays him the 18 gold guineas, remaining from the sum
dialog: his mother gave him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I shall have to write out a note for
dialog: the rest of it, Captain O'Reilly.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - OUTSIDE O'REILLY HOUSE - DAWN
text: Roderick exits to the street. The sound of the gambling
text: can still be heard in the street. He is soon joined by
dialog: Councillor Mulligan.
scene_heading: COUNCILLOR MULLIGAN
dialog: Master Roderick, you appear a young
dialog: fellow of birth and fortune; let me
dialog: whisper in your ear that you have
dialog: fallen into very bad hands -- it's a
dialog: regular gang of swindlers; and a
dialog: gentleman of your rank and quality
dialog: should never be seen in such
dialog: company. The captain has been a
dialog: gentleman's gentleman, and his lady
dialog: of no higher rank. Go home, pack
dialog: your valise, pay the little trifle
dialog: you owe me, mount your mare, and
dialog: ride back again to your parents --
dialog: it's the very best thing you can do.
text: Roderick does not reply, and walks slowly away from him
text: down the street.
scene_heading: INT. O'REILLY HOUSE - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING
text: Roderick enters.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: Into a pretty nest of villains,
dialog: indeed, was I plunged! When I
dialog: returned to my bed-chamber, a few
dialog: hours later, it seemed as if all my
dialog: misfortunes were to break on me at
dialog: once.
text: Valise open, wardrobe lying on the ground, and Roderick's
text: keys in the possession of O'Reilly and his wife.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: Whom have I been harboring in my
dialog: house? Who are you, sirrah?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Sirrah! Sirrah, I am as good a
dialog: gentleman as any in Ireland!
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: You're an impostor, young man, a
dialog: schemer, a deceiver!
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Repeat the words again, and I run
dialog: you through the body.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: Tut, tut! I can play at fencing as
dialog: well as you, Mr. Roderick James.
dialog: Ah! You change color, do you? Your
dialog: secret is known, is it? You come
text: like a viper into the bosom of
dialog: innocent families; you represent
dialog: yourself as the heir to my friends
dialog: the O'Higgins of Castle O'Higgins; I
dialog: introduce you to the nobility and
dialog: gentry of this methropolis; I take
dialog: you to my tradesmen, who give you
dialog: credit. I accept your note for near
dialog: two hundred pounds, and what do I
dialog: find? A fraud.
text: He holds up the name, Roderick James, printed on the
dialog: linen.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: Not Master O'Higgins of Watertown,
dialog: but Roderick James of the devil only
dialog: knows where...
text: Captain O'Reilly gathers up the linen clothes, silver
text: toilet articles, and the rest of Roderick's gear.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Hark ye, Mr. O'Reilly, I will tell
dialog: you why I was obliged to alter my
dialog: name, which is James and the best
dialog: name in Ireland. I changed it, sir,
dialog: because, on the day before I came to
dialog: Dublin, I killed a man in deadly
dialog: combat -- an Englishman, sir, and a
dialog: Captain in His Majesty's service;
dialog: and if you offer to let or hinder me
dialog: in the slightest way, the same arm
dialog: which destroyed him is ready to
dialog: punish you.
text: So saying, Roderick draws his sword like lightning, and
text: giving a "ha, ha!" and a stamp with his foot, lunges it
text: within an inch of O'Reilly's heart, who starts back and
text: turns deadly pale, while his wife, with a scream, flings
text: herself between them.
scene_heading: MRS. O'REILLY
dialog: Dearest Roderick -- be pacified.
dialog: O'Reilly, you don't want the poor
dialog: child's blood. Let him escape -- in
dialog: Heaven's name, let him go.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN O'REILLY
dialog: (sulkily)
dialog: He may go hang for me, and he's
dialog: better be off quickly, for I shall
dialog: go to the magistrate if I see him
dialog: again.
text: O'Reilly exits. His wife sits down on the bed and begins
dialog: to cry.
scene_heading: EXT. DUBLIN STREET - DAY
text: Roderick riding down the street, with his valise.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Where was now a home for the
dialog: descendant of the James? I was
dialog: expelled from Dublin by a
dialog: persecution occasioned, I must
dialog: confess, by my own imprudence. I
dialog: had no time to wait and choose. No
dialog: place of refuge to fly to.
scene_heading: INT. ALE HOUSE - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: There was a score of recruiting
text: parties in the town beating up for
dialog: men to join our gallant armies in
dialog: America and Germany.
text: Roderick approaches a Captain and a Sergeant, who quickly
dialog: make him welcome.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I will tell you frankly, sir. I am
dialog: a young gentleman in difficulties; I
dialog: have killed an officer in a duel,
dialog: and I am anxious to get out of the
dialog: country.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: But I needn't have troubled myself
dialog: with any explanations; King George
dialog: was in too much want of men to heed
dialog: from whence they came -- and a
dialog: fellow of my inches was always
dialog: welcome. Indeed, I could not have
dialog: chosen my time better. A transport
text: was lying at Dunleary, waiting for a
dialog: wind.
scene_heading: EXT. BRITISH WARSHIP AT SEA - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I never had a taste for any thing
dialog: but genteel company, and hate all
dialog: descriptions of low life. Hence my
dialog: account of the society in which I at
dialog: present found myself must of
dialog: necessity be short. The
text: reminiscences of the horrid black-
dialog: hole of a place in which we soldiers
dialog: were confined, of the wretched
dialog: creatures with whom I was now forced
dialog: to keep company, of the plowmen,
text: poachers, pickpockets, who had taken
dialog: refuge from poverty, or the law, as,
dialog: in truth, I had done myself, is
dialog: enough to make me ashamed even now.
text: Roderick sits very disconsolately over a platter of rancid
text: bacon and moldy biscuit, which is served to him at mess.
text: When it comes to his turn to be helped to drink, he is
text: served, like the rest, with dirty tin noggin, containing
text: somewhat more than half a pint of rum and water. The
text: beaker is so greasy and filthy that he cannot help turning
dialog: round to the messman and saying:
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Fellow, get me a glass!
text: At which, all the wretches round him burst into a roar of
text: laughter, the very loudest among them being Mr. Toole, a
text: red-haired monster of a man.
speaker_heading: MR. TOOLE
dialog: Get the gentleman a towel for his
text: hands, and serve him a basin of
dialog: turtle-soup.
text: Roars the monster, who is sitting, or rather squatting, on
text: the deck opposite him, and as he speaks, he suddenly
text: seizes Roderick's beaker of grog and empties it in midst
text: of another burst of applause.
speaker_heading: LINK-BOY
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: If you want to vex him, ask him
text: about his wife, the washerwoman, who
text: bates him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Is it a towel of your wife's
dialog: washing, Mr. Toole? I'm told she
dialog: wiped your face often with one.
speaker_heading: LINK-BOY
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Ask him why he wouldn't see her
dialog: yesterday, when she came to the
dialog: ship.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And so I put to him some other
dialog: foolish jokes about soapsuds, hen-
text: pecking, and flat-irons, which set
text: the man into a fury, and succeeded
dialog: in raising a quarrel between us.
text: Roderick and Toole fight with cudgels. Roderick gives him
text: a thump across his head which lays him lifeless on the
dialog: floor.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: This victory over the cock of the
dialog: vile dunghill obtained me respect
dialog: among the wretches among whom I
dialog: formed part.
scene_heading: EXT. MILITARY DRILL FIELD - CUXHAVEN - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Our passage was very favorable, and
dialog: in two days we landed at Cuxhaven,
dialog: and before I had been a month in the
dialog: Electorate, I was transported into a
dialog: tall and proper young soldier, and,
dialog: having a natural aptitude for
dialog: military exercise, was soon as
dialog: accomplished at the drill as the
text: oldest sergeant in the regiment.
dialog: Various cuts.
text: Roderick learning the soldierly arts, musket drill, manual
text: of arms, bayonet, marching.
scene_heading: EXT. MILITARY COURTYARD - CUXHAVEN - DAY
text: The Cuxhaven troops are drawn up to receive a new
dialog: regiment, arrived from England.
text: Roderick sees, marching at the head of his company, his
text: old friend, Captain Grogan, who gives him a wink.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Six weeks after we arrived in
dialog: Cuxhaven, we were reinforced by
dialog: Gales regiment of foot from England,
dialog: and I promise you the sight of
dialog: Grogan's face was most welcome to
dialog: me, for it assured me that a friend
dialog: was near me.
scene_heading: INT. GROGAN'S QUARTERS - DAY
text: Roderick and Grogan.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Grogan gave me a wink of
dialog: recognition, but offered no public
dialog: token of acquaintance and it was not
dialog: until two days afterwards that he
dialog: called me into his quarters, and
dialog: then, shaking hands with me
dialog: cordially, gave me news which I
dialog: wanted, of my family.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: I had news of you in Dublin. Faith,
dialog: you've begun early, like your
dialog: father's son, but I think you could
dialog: not do better than as you have done.
dialog: But why did you not write home to
dialog: your poor mother? She has sent
dialog: half-a-dozen letters to you in
dialog: Dublin.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I suppose she addressed them to me
dialog: in my real name, by which I never
dialog: thought to ask for them at the post
dialog: office.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: We must write to her today, and you
dialog: can tell her that you are safe and
dialog: married to "Brown Bess."
text: Roderick sighs when Grogan says the word "married," on
text: which Grogan says with a laugh:
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: I see you are thinking of a certain
text: young lady at Duganstown.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Is Miss Dugan well?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: There's only six Miss Dugans now...
dialog: poor Dorothy.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Good heavens! Whatever? Has she
dialog: died of grief?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: She took on so at your going away
dialog: that she was obliged to console
text: herself with a husband. She is now
dialog: Mrs. John Best.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Mrs. John Best! Was there another
dialog: Mr. John Best?!
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: No, the very same one, my boy. He
text: recovered from his wound. The ball
dialog: you hit him with was not likely to
text: hurt him. It was only made of tow.
dialog: Do you think the Dugans would let
dialog: you kill fifteen hundred a-year out
dialog: of the family? The plan of the duel
dialog: was all arranged in order to get you
dialog: out of the way, for the cowardly
dialog: Englishman could never be brought to
dialog: marry from fear of you. But hit him
dialog: you certainly did, Roderick, and
text: with a fine thick plugget of tow,
dialog: and the fellow was so frightened
dialog: that he was an hour in coming to.
dialog: We told your mother the story
text: afterwards, and a pretty scene she
dialog: made.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: The coward!
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: He has paid off your uncle's
dialog: mortgage. He gave Dorothy a coach-
dialog: and-six. That coward of a fellow
dialog: has been making of your uncle's
dialog: family. Faith, the business was
dialog: well done. Your cousins, Michael
dialog: and Harry, never let him out of
dialog: their sight, though he was for
dialog: deserting to England, until the
dialog: marriage was completed, and the
text: happy couple off on their road to
dialog: Dublin. Are you in want of cash, my
dialog: boy? You may draw upon me, for I got
dialog: a couple of hundred out of Master
dialog: Best for my share and, while they
dialog: last, you shall never want.
scene_heading: EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS - BRITISH ON THE MARCH - DAY
text: Roderick on the march.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Our regiment, which was quartered
text: about Stade and Luneberg, speedily
dialog: had got orders to march southwards
dialog: towards the Rhine, where we would
dialog: fight the famous battle of Minden.
dialog: It would require a greater
dialog: philosopher and historian than I am
dialog: to explain the causes of the famous
dialog: Seven Years' War in which Europe was
dialog: engaged, and, indeed, its origin has
dialog: always appeared to me to be so
dialog: complicated, and the books written
dialog: about it so amazingly hard to
dialog: understand, that I have seldom been
text: much wiser at the end of a chapter
dialog: than at the beginning, and so shall
dialog: not trouble you with any personal
dialog: disquisitions concerning the matter.
text: Various cuts featuring Roderick; marching, cooking at open
text: fires, gambling, resting in a farm yard, officers riding
text: by; shivering in his blanket.
scene_heading: EXT. BATTLEFIELD OF MINDEN - BATTLE FRAGMENT - DAY
dialog: Roderick and his company.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Were these memoirs not characterized
dialog: by truth, I might easily make myself
dialog: the hero of some strange and popular
dialog: adventures.
scene_heading: EXT. MINDEN - BATTLE FRAGMENTS - DAY
text: Officers ride by in smoke. Troops marching to the attack.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: But I saw no one of the higher ranks
dialog: that day than my colonel and a
text: couple of orderly officers riding by
dialog: in the smoke -- no one on our side,
dialog: that is. A poor corporal is not
dialog: generally invited into the company
dialog: of commanders and the great.
text: Roderick advancing.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: But, in revenge, I saw, I promise
dialog: you, some very good company on the
dialog: French part, for their regiments of
dialog: Lorraine and Royal Cravate were
dialog: charging us all day; and in the sort
dialog: of melee high and low are pretty
dialog: equally received. I hate bragging,
dialog: but I cannot help saying that I made
dialog: a very close acquaintance with the
dialog: colonel of the Cravates.
text: Roderick firing his musket. He bayonets a French colonel,
text: amidst shouts and curses.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And finished off a poor little
text: ensign, so young, slender, and
dialog: small, that a blow from my pigtail
dialog: would have dispatched him.
text: Roderick kills a French ensign with a blows from the butt
text: of his musket.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: And in the poor ensign's pocket
dialog: found a purse of fourteen louis
dialog: d'or, and a silver box of sugar-
dialog: plums, of which the former present
dialog: was very agreeable to me.
text: Roderick taking money and the box of sugar-plums from the
text: ensign.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: If people would tell their stories
dialog: of battles in this simple way, I
dialog: think the cause of truth would not
dialog: suffer by it. All I know of this
dialog: famous fight of Minden, except from
dialog: books, is told here above.
text: Captain Grogan is shot, cries out, and falls.
text: A brother captain turns to Lieutenant Lakenham.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Grogan's down; Lakenham, there's
dialog: your company.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: That was all the epitaph my brave
dialog: patron got.
text: Roderick kneels above Grogan.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN GROGAN
dialog: I should have left you a hundred
dialog: guineas, Roderick, but for a cursed
dialog: run of ill-luck last night at faro.
text: He gives Roderick a faint squeeze of the hand; and, as the
text: word is given to advance, Roderick leaves him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: When we came back to our ground,
dialog: which we presently did, he was lying
dialog: still, but he was dead. Some of our
dialog: people had already torn off his
text: epaulets, and, no doubt, had rifled
text: his purse.
scene_heading: EXT. VARIOUS ROUGH RURAL LOCATIONS - DAY
text: Short cuts to voice over.
text: Roderick and British troops rape, pillage and burn.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: After the death of my protector,
dialog: Captain Grogan, I am forced to
dialog: confess that I fell into the very
dialog: worst of courses and company. In a
dialog: foreign country, with the enemy
dialog: before us, and the people
dialog: continually under contribution from
text: one side or the other, numberless
dialog: irregularities were permitted to the
dialog: troops. It is well for gentlemen to
dialog: talk of the age of chivalry; but
dialog: remember the starving brutes whom
dialog: they lead -- men nursed in poverty,
dialog: entirely ignorant, made to take
dialog: pride in deeds of blood -- men who
dialog: can have no amusement but in
text: drunkenness, debauch, and plunder.
dialog: It is with these shocking
dialog: instruments that your great warriors
dialog: and kings have been doing their
text: murderous work in the world.
scene_heading: EXT. BATTLEFIELD - WARBURG - BATTLE FRAGMENTS - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The year in which George II died,
dialog: our regiment had the honor to be
dialog: present at the Battle of Warburg,
dialog: where Prince Ferdinand once more
text: completely defeated the Frenchmen.
text: Lieutenant Lakenham is shot, falls, and cries for help.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: During the action, my lieutenant,
dialog: Mr. Lakenham, of Lakenham, was
text: struck by a musket-ball in the side.
dialog: He had shown no want of courage in
dialog: this or any other occasion where he
dialog: had been called upon to act against
dialog: the French; but this was his first
dialog: wound, and the young gentleman was
text: exceedingly frightened by it.
speaker_heading: LAKENHAM
dialog: Here, you, Roderick James. I will
dialog: pay you five guineas if you will
dialog: carry me into the town which is hard
dialog: by those woods.
text: Roderick and another man take him up in a cloak, and carry
text: him towards the nearby town of Warburg.
scene_heading: EXT. A FARMHOUSE - GERMAN STREET - WARBURG - DAY
text: In order to get into the house, Roderick and the other man
text: are obliged to fire into the locks with their pieces,
text: which summons brings the inhabitants of the house to the
text: door; a very pretty and black-eyed, young woman, and her
text: old, half-blinded father.
text: They are at first unwilling to accommodate the guest, but
text: Mr. Lakenham, speaking to them in German, and taking a
text: couple of guineas out of a very full purse, speedily
text: convinces the people that they have only to deal with a
dialog: person of honor.
scene_heading: INT. WARBURG FARMHOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY
text: They carry Lieutenant Lakenham to bed and receive their
dialog: five guineas.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: We put the patient to bed, and he
dialog: paid me the stipulated reward. A
dialog: young surgeon, who desired nothing
dialog: better than to take himself out of
dialog: the fire of the musketry, came
text: presently to dress the wound.
text: In his German jargon, Roderick pays some deserved
text: compliments to the black-eyed beauty of Warburg, thinking,
dialog: with no small envy, how comfortable it would be to be
dialog: billeted there.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - WARBURG - OUTSIDE THE FARMHOUSE - DAY
text: He starts back to the regiment, with his comrade, when the
text: man interrupts his reverie by suggesting they divide the
dialog: five guineas.
speaker_heading: PRIVATE
dialog: I should get half.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Your share is one guinea.
text: Roderick gives him one guinea.
speaker_heading: PRIVATE
dialog: He gave you five guineas, and I
dialog: bloody well expect half.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Go to the devil.
text: The private lifting his musket, hits Roderick a blow with
text: the butt-end of it, which sends him stunned to the ground,
text: allowing his comrade to take the other four guineas from
text: his pocket.
text: Recovering his senses, Roderick bleeding, with a large
text: wound in the head, has barely time to stagger back to the
text: house where he had just left the lieutenant, when he
text: falls fainting at the door, just as the surgeon exits.
scene_heading: INT. WARBURG FARMHOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY
text: Roderick is carried by the surgeon and the black-eyed
text: girl, into another bed in the room where the Lieutenant
dialog: has been laid.
speaker_heading: LAKENHAM
dialog: (languidly, in pain)
dialog: Who are you putting into that bed?
speaker_heading: LISCHEN
dialog: We have the Corporal, wounded, to
dialog: you bringing.
speaker_heading: LAKENHAM
dialog: A corporal? Turn him out. Schicken
dialog: sie Herrn Koporal weg!
scene_heading: INT. WARBURG FARMHOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT AND DAY
text: Lischen brings Roderick a refreshing drink; and, as he
text: takes it, he presses the kind hand that gave it to him;
text: nor does this token of his gratitude seem unwelcome.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I found Lischen the tenderest of
dialog: nurses. Whenever any delicacy was
dialog: to be provided for the wounded
dialog: lieutenant, a share was always sent
text: to the bed opposite his, and to the
dialog: avaricious man's no small annoyance.
text: Lischen serving food.
text: Various cuts, representing different days.
dialog: Lakenham behaving as rottenly as Roderick describes:
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Nor was I the only person in the
dialog: house to whom the worthy gentleman
dialog: was uncivil. He ordered the fair
dialog: Lischen hither and thither, made
dialog: impertinent love to her, abused her
text: soups, quarreled with her
dialog: omelettes, and grudged the money
dialog: which was laid out for his
dialog: maintenance, so that our hostess
dialog: detested him as much as, I think,
text: without vanity, as she regarded me.
text: Roderick making lover to Lischen while Lieutenant Lakenham
text: sulks in the next bed.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: For if truth must be told, I had
dialog: made very deep love to her during my
dialog: stay under her roof, as is always my
dialog: way with women, of whatever age or
dialog: degree of beauty. Do not think me
dialog: very cruel and heartless, ladies;
dialog: this heart of Lischen's was like
dialog: many a town, which had been stormed
dialog: and occupied several times before I
dialog: came to invest it,
text: Roderick sitting up in bed. Lischen has just served him
text: his supper.
text: Enter a British officer, an aide who carries a notebook,
text: and a surgeon. In a brief scene to be written, we learn
dialog: that a sudden movement on the part of the French requires
dialog: the British army to follow them. The town is to be
text: evacuated, except for some Prussian line-of-communication
text: troops, whose surgeons are to visit the wounded in the
dialog: place; and, when they are well, they are to be drafted to
dialog: their regiments.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I began to reflect how pleasant my
dialog: quarters were to me, and that I was
dialog: much better here than crawling under
text: an odious tent with a parcel of
dialog: tipsy soldiers, or going the night-
dialog: rounds, or rising long before
dialog: daybreak for drill. I determined
dialog: that I never would join mine again.
scene_heading: EXT. VIEW OUT OF WARBURG FARMHOUSE WINDOW - DAY
text: Roderick stands by the window, watching English troops and
text: wagons leaving the town.
scene_heading: INT. WARBURG FARMHOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY
text: Roderick walks into Lakenham's room attired in his full
text: regimentals, and with his hat cocked over his left eye.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I'm promoted Lieutenant. I've come
dialog: to take my leave of you. I intend
dialog: to have your papers and purse.
speaker_heading: LAKENHAM
dialog: You great scoundrel! You mutinous
dialog: dog! What do you mean by dressing
dialog: yourself in my regimentals? As sure
dialog: as my name's Lakenham, when we get
dialog: back to the regiment, I'll have your
dialog: soul cut out of your body.
text: With this, Roderick puts his hand under his pillow, at
text: which Lakenham gives a scream that might have called the
dialog: whole garrison about his ears.
text: Roderick threatens him with a knife at his throat.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Hark ye, sir! No more noise, or you
dialog: are a dead man!
text: Roderick, taking his handkerchief, binds it tight round
text: his mouth, and, pulling forward the sleeves of his shirt,
text: ties them in a knot together, and so leaves him, removing
text: the papers and the purse, and wishing him politely a good
dialog: day.
scene_heading: EXT. WARBURG FARMHOUSE - STREET - DAY
text: Lischen, waiting outside the house, with a saddled horse,
text: throws her arms around him, and makes the tenderest adieu.
text: Roderick mounts his newly-purchased animal, waves his hat
text: gallantly, and, prances away down the street.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: Roderick happily riding along a wooded country road,
text: rounds a blind bend and sees suddenly before him, about
text: two hundred yards away, a company of Prussian infantry
text: resting along the sides of the road, together with a dozen
text: mounted dragoons.
text: A quick calculation tells him that is is better to proceed
text: than to turn back, and he rides into their midst,
text: approaching a group of officers.
text: He presents himself as Lieutenant Lakenham and asks for
text: directions to join his regiment. He is told that he is
text: riding in the wrong direction, and is shown a map.
text: During the explanation, Captain Galgenstein approaches
text: with an open, smiling countenance, introduces himself, and
text: says he, too, is bound for the same place, and asks if
dialog: Roderick will honor him with his company.
text: To avoid suspicion, Roderick readily accepts the offer,
text: and the two men mount up, and ride off together.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - GERMANY - DAY
text: Roderick and Galgenstein riding together.
text: Dialogue under voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My companion treated me with great
dialog: civility, and asked me a thousand
dialog: questions about England, which I
dialog: answered as best I might. But this
dialog: best, I am bound to say, was bad
dialog: enough. I knew nothing about
dialog: England, and I invented a thousand
dialog: stories which I told him; described
text: the king and the ministers to him,
dialog: said the British ambassador in
dialog: Berlin was my uncle, and promised my
dialog: acquaintance a letter of
dialog: recommendation to him.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: What is your uncle's name?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: O'Grady.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: (with a laugh)
dialog: Oh, yes, of course, Ambassador
dialog: O'Grady...
scene_heading: EXT. DESOLATE GERMAN ROAD - DAY
text: Roderick and Captain Galgenstein. Their horses' heads
text: together, jogging on.
text: They pass a party of recruits under the armed guard of a
text: red-coated Hanoverian sergeant.
text: He exchanges signs of recognition with Captain
dialog: Galgenstein.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: It hurts my feelings to be obliged
dialog: to commune with such wretches, but
dialog: the stern necessities of war demand
dialog: men continually, and hence these
dialog: recruiters whom you see market in
dialog: human flesh. They get five-and-
dialog: twenty thaler a man from our
dialog: government for every man they bring
dialog: in. For fine men -- for men like
dialog: you.
dialog: (he adds laughing)
dialog: They would go as high as hundred.
scene_heading: EXT. DESOLATE GERMAN INN - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Roderick and Captain Galgenstein approach a very lonely-
dialog: looking place.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: This is a very good inn. Shall we
dialog: stop for dinner?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: This may be a very good inn for
dialog: Germany, but it would not pass in
dialog: old Ireland. Corbach is only a
dialog: league off, let us push on for
dialog: Corbach.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Do you want to see the loveliest
dialog: woman in Europe?
text: Roderick smiles.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Ah! You sly rogue, I see that will
dialog: influence you.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
text: The place seems more a farm than an
dialog: inn-yard.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: The people are great farmers, as
dialog: well as inn-keepers.
text: They enter by a great gate into a court, walled round, and
text: at on end of which is the building, a dingy ruinous place.
text: A couple of covered wagons are in the courtyard; their
text: horses are littered under a shed hard by.
text: Lounging about the place are some men, and a pair of
text: sergeants in the Prussian uniform, who both touch their
text: hats to the captain.
text: The inn has something foreboding about it, and the men
text: shut the great yard-gates as soon as they enter.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: (explaining the gate)
dialog: Parties of French horsemen are about
dialog: the country, and one cannot take too
dialog: many precautions against such
dialog: villains.
text: The two sergeant take charge of the horses; the captain
text: orders one of them to take Roderick's valise to his
dialog: bedroom.
text: Roderick promises the sergeant a glass of schnapps for his
dialog: pains.
text: They enter into supper.
scene_heading: INT. GERMAN INN - LATE AFTERNOON
text: A dish of fried eggs and bacon is ordered from a hideous
text: old wench that comes to serve them, in place of the lovely
dialog: creature which had been expected; and the captain,
dialog: laughing, says:
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Well, our meal is a frugal one, but
dialog: a soldier has many a time a worse.
text: Taking off his hat, sword-belt, and gloves, with great
text: ceremony, Galgenstein sits down to eat. Roderick puts his
text: weapons securely on the old chest of drawers where the
text: captain's is laid.
text: The hideous old woman brings in a pot of very sour wine,
text: at which, and at her ugliness, Roderick feels a
text: considerable ill-humor.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (when she leaves)
dialog: Where's the beauty you promised me?
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: (laughing and looking
dialog: hard at Roderick)
dialog: It was my joke. I was tired, and
dialog: did not care to go farther. There's
dialog: not prettier woman here than that.
dialog: If she won't suit your fancy, my
dialog: friend, then you must wait awhile.
text: This increases Roderick's ill-humor.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (sternly)
dialog: Upon my word, sir, I think you have
dialog: acted very coolly.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: I have acted as I think fit.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Sir, I'm a British officer.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: It's a lie! You're a deserter!
dialog: You're an impostor, sir; Your lies
dialog: and folly have confirmed this to me.
dialog: You pretend to carry dispatches to a
dialog: general who has been dead these ten
dialog: months; you have an uncle who is an
dialog: ambassador and whose name you don't
dialog: know. Will you join and take the
dialog: bounty, sir, or will you be given
dialog: up?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Neither!
text: Springing at him like a tiger.
text: But, agile as he is, Galgenstein is equally on his guard.
text: He takes two pistols out of his pockets, fires one off,
text: and says, from the other end of the table where he stands
text: dodging Roderick, as it were.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Advance a step, and I send this
dialog: bullet into your brains!
text: The door is flung open, and the two sergeants enter, armed
text: with musket and bayonet to aid their captain.
text: The game is up. Roderick flings down a knife with which
dialog: he had armed himself, for the old hag, on bringing in the
text: wine, had removed his sword.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I volunteer.
scene_heading: EXT. A ROAD - DAY
text: Prussian troops on the march. Roderick is now one of
dialog: them.
text: Captain Galgenstein rides by.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: At the close of the Seven Years' War,
dialog: the Prussian army, so renowned for
dialog: its disciplined valor, was
text: officered and under-officered by
dialog: native Prussians, it is true, but
dialog: was composed for the most part of
dialog: men hired or stolen, like myself,
dialog: from almost every nation in Europe.
dialog: The deserting to and fro was
dialog: prodigious.
scene_heading: EXT. A FIELD - DAY
text: Prussian punishment gauntlet.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The life the private soldier led was
dialog: a frightful one to any but the men
dialog: of iron courage and endurance. The
dialog: punishment was incessant.
scene_heading: EXT. VARIOUS RURAL LOCATIONS - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I was not near so unhappy, in spite
dialog: of all, as I had been on my first
dialog: enlisting in Ireland. At least,
dialog: there will be no one of my
dialog: acquaintance who will witness my
dialog: shame, and that is the point which I
dialog: have always cared for most.
dialog: Rape, pillage and burn.
text: Brief thematic repeat of British army version.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I reasoned with myself thus: "Now
dialog: you are caught, there is no use in
dialog: repining -- make the best of your
dialog: situation, and get all the pleasure
dialog: you can out of it. There are a
dialog: thousand opportunities of plunder,
dialog: offered to the soldier in war time,
dialog: out of which he can get both
dialog: pleasure and profit; make use of
dialog: these, and be happy."
scene_heading: EXT. BATTLEFIELD - FRAGMENT
dialog: Prussians against Austrians, or French, or Saxons.
text: Roderick fighting.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I do not intend to make a history of
dialog: battles in the Prussian any more
dialog: than in the English service. I did
dialog: my duty in them as well as another,
dialog: and there was not a braver,
dialog: cleverer, handsomer, and, I must
dialog: own, wickeder soldier in the
dialog: Prussian army.
scene_heading: EXT. BATTLEFIELD - ACTION - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I had formed myself to the condition
dialog: of the proper fighting beast; on a
dialog: day of action, I was savage and
dialog: happy.
text: Roderick saves Captain Galgenstein's life.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY
text: Roderick is decorated by Colonel Bulow for his heroism in
dialog: saving Captain Galgenstein.
text: Colonel Bulow gives Roderick two Frederic d'or in front of
dialog: the regiment.
speaker_heading: COLONEL BULOW
dialog: You are a gallant soldier, and have
dialog: evidently come of good stock; but
dialog: you are idle, dissolute, and
dialog: unprincipled; you have done a deal
dialog: of harm to the men; and, for all
dialog: your talents and bravery, I am sure
dialog: you will come to no good.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I hope Colonel Bulow is mistaken
dialog: regarding my character. I have
dialog: fallen into bad company, it is true;
dialog: but I have only done as other
dialog: soldiers have done; and, above all,
dialog: I have never had a kind friend and
dialog: protector before, to whom I might
dialog: show that I was worthy of better
dialog: things. The Colonel may say I am a
dialog: ruined lad, and send me to the
dialog: devil; but be sure of this, I would
dialog: go to the devil to serve the
dialog: regiment.
text: Captain Galgenstein looks pleased with Roderick's
dialog: performance.
speaker_heading: BERLIN - 1763
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Soon after the war ended, our
dialog: regiment was garrisoned in the
dialog: capital, the least dull, perhaps, of
dialog: all the towns of Prussia; but that
text: does not say much for its gaiety.
scene_heading: INT. ANTE-ROOM - CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Roderick enters and approaches the Captain's sergeant.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Private Roderick James. First
dialog: Hanoverian Guards. Captain
dialog: Galgenstein sent for me.
speaker_heading: PRUSSIAN SERGEANT
dialog: You may wait.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Thank you, sir.
text: Roderick stands stiffly. We can make out the sound of
text: loud talking behind the closed door.
text: Enter a private huffing and puffing.
speaker_heading: PRIVATE
text: Sergeant, the wagon has arrived with
dialog: the Captain's furniture, but the
dialog: driver says he is not supposed to
dialog: unload it. Is it possible for you
dialog: to talk to him?
text: Exit the sergeant, muttering. Roderick, now alone in the
text: office, walks closer to the door so that he can hear what
dialog: is being said.
speaker_heading: MINISTER GALGENSTEIN (O.S.)
dialog: Give him his discharge! Bon Dieu!
dialog: You are a model of probity! You'll
dialog: never succeed to my place, my dear
dialog: nephew, if you are no wiser than you
dialog: are just now. Make the fellow as
dialog: useful to you as you please. You
dialog: say he has a good manner and a frank
dialog: countenance, that he can lie with
dialog: assurance, and fight, you say, on a
dialog: pinch. The scoundrel does not want
dialog: for good qualities. As long as you
dialog: have the regiment in terrorem over
dialog: him, you can do as you like with
dialog: him. Once let him loose, and the lad
dialog: is likely to give you the slip.
dialog: Keep on promising him; promise to
dialog: make him a general, if you like.
dialog: What the deuce do I care? There are
dialog: spies enough to be had in this town
dialog: without him.
text: Roderick hears the sergeant returning and walks back to
text: the door.
text: Then the office door opens, Captain Galgenstein looks out,
text: sees Roderick, smiles and say:
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Good morning, Private James. Please
dialog: come in. I should like you to meet
dialog: my uncle, Herr Minister of Police
dialog: Galgenstein.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: How do you do, sir?
text: The Minister nods.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The captain was the nephew and heir
dialog: of the Minister of Police, Herr
dialog: Galgenstein, a relationship which,
dialog: no doubt, aided in the younger
dialog: gentlemen's promotion.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Your loyalty to me and your service
dialog: to the regiment has pleased me very
dialog: well -- and now there is another
dialog: occasion on which you may make
dialog: yourself useful to us; if you
dialog: succeed, depend on it, your reward
dialog: will be your discharge from the
dialog: army, and a bounty of 100 guineas.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: What is the service, sir?
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: There is lately come to Berlin a
dialog: gentleman in the service of the
dialog: Empress Queen, who calls himself the
dialog: Chevalier de Belle Fast, and wears
dialog: the red riband and star of the
dialog: pope's order of the Spur. He is
dialog: made for good society, polished,
text: obliging, a libertine, without
dialog: prejudices, fond of women, of good
dialog: food, of high play, prudent and
dialog: discreet.
text: The Captain smiles at Roderick.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: He speaks Italian and French
dialog: indifferently; but we have some
dialog: reason to fancy this Monsieur de
dialog: Belle Fast is a native of your
dialog: country of Ireland, and that he has
dialog: come here as a spy.
text: The Captain rises and begins to pace back and forth.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Naturally, your knowledge of English
dialog: makes you an ideal choice to go into
dialog: his service. Of course, you will
dialog: not know a word of English; and if
dialog: the Chevalier asks as to the
dialog: particularity of your accent, say
dialog: you are Hungarian. The servant who
dialog: came with him will be turned away
dialog: today, and the person to whom he has
dialog: applied for a faithful fellow will
dialog: recommend you.
text: Roderick nods.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: You are a Hungarian; you served in
dialog: the army, and left on account of
text: weakness in the loins. He gambles a
dialog: great deal, and wins. Do you know
dialog: the cards well?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
text: Only a very little, as soldiers do.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: I had thought you more expert. You
dialog: must find out if the Chevalier
text: cheats. He sees the English and
text: Austrian envoys continually, and the
dialog: young men of either ministry sup
text: repeatedly at his house. Find out
dialog: what they talk of, for how much each
dialog: plays, especially if any of them
dialog: play on parole. If you are able to,
dialog: read his private letters, though
dialog: about those which go to the post,
dialog: you need not trouble yourself -- we
dialog: look at them there. But never see
dialog: him write a note without finding out
dialog: to whom it goes, and by what channel
text: or messenger. He sleeps with the
text: keys of his dispatch-box with a
text: string around his neck -- twenty
dialog: frederics, if you get an impression
dialog: of the keys.
scene_heading: MINISTER GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Does this assignment interest you?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes, Minister, I am interested in
dialog: any work in which I can be of
dialog: service to Captain Galgenstein.
text: The Minister studies Roderick, coldly.
scene_heading: EXT. CHEVALIER DE BELLE FAST'S HOUSE - BERLIN - DAY
text: Roderick, now dressed in civilian clothes, admires a
text: beautiful carriage, waiting at the door. Then he enters.
scene_heading: INT. CHEVALIER DE BELLE FAST'S APARTMENT - DAY
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: You are the young man who M. de
dialog: Seebach recommended?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes, sir. Here is my letter.
text: Roderick bows, and hands him a letter from that gentleman,
dialog: with which the Captain had taken care to provide him.
text: As the Chevalier reads the letter, Roderick has the
text: leisure to examine him.
text: He is a man of sixty years of age, dressed superbly,
text: wearing rings, diamonds and laces.
text: One of his eyes is closed with a black patch, and he wears
text: a little white and red paint, and a pair of moustachios,
text: which fall over his lip.
text: The Chevalier is seated at a table near the window to read
dialog: the letter.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Your name is Lazlo Zilagyi?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: You come highly recommended by Herr
dialog: Seebach.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Herr Seebach was a very kind
dialog: employer.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: For whom else have you worked?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: No one, sir. Before that I served
dialog: in the army but had to leave due to
dialog: weakness of the loins.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Who else can give me information
dialog: about you?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
text: Only the agency of servants.
text: The Chevalier puts the letter down, looks at Roderick for
text: a few seconds, and then smiles.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: You will do. I will give you 30...
dialog: a day. I do not provide your
dialog: clothing; you will sleep at home,
dialog: and you will be at my orders every
text: morning at seven o'clock.
text: He notices Roderick begin to tremble and look peculiar.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Is there something wrong?
text: He goes up to Roderick.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: It was very imprudent of me; but
dialog: when I saw the splendor of his
dialog: appearance, the nobleness of his
dialog: manner, I felt it impossible to keep
dialog: disguise with him. You, who have
dialog: never been out of your country know
dialog: little what it is to hear a friendly
dialog: voice in captivity; and there's a
dialog: many a man that will understand the
dialog: cause of the burst of feeling which
text: was about to take place.
text: The Chevalier takes Roderick by the shoulder.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (as he speaks,
dialog: bursting into tears)
dialog: Sir, I have a confession to make. I
dialog: am an Irishman, and my name is
dialog: Roderick James. I was abducted into
dialog: the Prussian army two years ago, and
dialog: now I have been put into your
dialog: service by my Captain and his uncle,
dialog: the Minister of Police, to serve as
dialog: a watch upon your actions, of which
dialog: I am to give information to the same
dialog: quarter. For this odious service, I
dialog: have been promised my discharge, and
dialog: a hundred guineas.
text: Sobbing, Roderick falls into his arms.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: The rascals! They think to catch
dialog: me, do they? Why, young man, my
dialog: chief conspiracy is a faro-bank.
text: But the king is so jealous, that he
dialog: will see a spy in every person who
dialog: comes to his miserable capital, in
dialog: the great sandy desert here.
scene_heading: EXT. BERLIN - PARK - DAY
text: Roderick and the Chevalier walking.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And I think he was as much affected
dialog: as I was at thus finding one of his
dialog: kindred; for he, too, was an exile
text: from home, and a friendly voice, a
dialog: look, brought the old country back
text: to his memory again, and the old
dialog: days of his boyhood.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: I'd give five years of my life to
dialog: see the old country again, the
dialog: greenfields, and the river, and the
text: old round tower, and the burying
dialog: place.
scene_heading: EXT. BERLIN - STREET - DAY
text: Roderick and the Chevalier walking.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: My lad, I have been in every
dialog: service; and, between ourselves, owe
dialog: money in every capital in Europe. I
dialog: have been a rolling stone. Play --
dialog: play has been my ruin! That and
dialog: beauty. The women have made a fool
dialog: of me, my dear boy. I am a soft-
dialog: hearted creature, and this minute,
dialog: at sixty-two, have no more command
dialog: of myself than when Peggy O'Dwyer
dialog: made a fool of me at sixteen.
scene_heading: EXT. BERLIN - LAKE WANNSEE - DAY
text: Roderick and the Chevalier walking along the bank.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: The cards are now my only
dialog: livelihood. Sometimes I am in luck,
dialog: and then I lay out my money in these
dialog: trinkets you see. It's property,
dialog: look you, and the only way I have
dialog: found of keeping a little about me.
dialog: When the luck goes against me, why,
dialog: my dear, my diamonds go to the
dialog: pawnbrokers and I wear paste. Do
dialog: you understand the cards?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I can play as soldiers do, but have
dialog: no great skill.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: We will practice in the mornings, my
dialog: boy, and I'll put you up to a thing
dialog: or two worth knowing.
scene_heading: INT. CHEVALIER'S ROOMS - BERLIN - DAY
dialog: Quick cuts -- Roderick being taught the profession of
text: cards and the dice-box.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN HOUSE - BERLIN - DAY
text: Roderick, Minister Galgenstein, and Captain Galgenstein.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I carried my little reports to
text: Captain Galgenstein at the Garden
dialog: house outside the town where he gave
dialog: me rendezvous. These reports, of
dialog: course, were arranged between me and
dialog: the Chevalier beforehand. I was
dialog: instructed, and it is always the
dialog: best way, to tell as much truth as
dialog: my story would possible bear.
text: Dialogue comes up from under voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: He goes to church regularly -- he is
dialog: very religious, and after hearing
text: mass comes home to breakfast. Then
text: he takes an airing in his chariot
dialog: till dinner, which is served at
text: noon. After dinner, he writes his
dialog: letters, if he has any letters to
dialog: write; but he has very little to do
dialog: in this way. His letters are to the
dialog: Austrian envoy, with whom he
dialog: corresponds, but who does not
dialog: acknowledge him; and being written
dialog: in English, or course, I look over
dialog: his shoulder. He generally writes
text: for money. He makes his party with
dialog: Calsabigi, the lottery contractor,
dialog: the Russian attaches, two from the
dialog: English embassy, my lords Deuceace
text: and Punter, who play a jeu d'enfer,
text: and a few more. He wins often, but
dialog: not always. Lord Deuceace is a very
dialog: fine player. The Chevalier Elliott,
dialog: the English Minister, sometimes
dialog: comes, on which occasion the
dialog: secretaries do not play.
scene_heading: INT. CHEVALIER'S APARTMENTS - NIGHT
text: The Chevalier is at play against several gentlemen,
text: including the Prince of Turbingen, while Roderick signals
dialog: the cards.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: It was agreed that I should keep my
dialog: character of valet, that in the
dialog: presence of strangers I should not
dialog: know a word of English, that I
dialog: should keep good lookout on the
dialog: trumps when I was serving the
dialog: champagne and punch about; and,
dialog: having a remarkably fine eyesight,
dialog: and a great natural aptitude, I was
dialog: speedily able to give my dear
dialog: benefactor much assistance against
text: his opponents at the green table.
text: Several cuts of playing and cheating to illustrate voice
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Simplicity was our secret.
dialog: Everything successful is simple.
dialog: If, for instance, I wiped the dust
dialog: off a chair with my napkin, it was
dialog: to show that the enemy was strong in
dialog: diamonds; if I pushed it, he had an
dialog: ace, king; if I said, "Punch or
dialog: wine, my lord?" hearts was meant.
dialog: If "Wine or punch?" clubs. If I
dialog: blew my nose, it was to indicate
dialog: that there was another confederate
text: employed by the adversary; and then,
dialog: I warrant you, some pretty trials of
dialog: skill would take place. The Prince
dialog: of Turbingen, although so young, had
dialog: a very great skill and cleverness
dialog: with the cards in every way; and it
dialog: was only from hearing Ritter von
text: Brandenburg, who came with him, yawn
dialog: three times when the Chevalier had
dialog: the ace of trumps, that I knew we
dialog: were Greek to Greek, as it were.
text: The Prince loses a big hand, and, in a fury, throws down
text: his cards. He stares at the table, then at the Chevalier.
speaker_heading: PRINCE
dialog: Chevalier, though I cannot say how,
dialog: I believe you have cheated me.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: I deny your Grace's accusations, and
dialog: beg you to say how you have been
dialog: cheated?
speaker_heading: PRINCE
dialog: (glaring at Roderick)
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Your Grace owes me seventy thousand
dialog: frederics, which I have honorably
dialog: won.
speaker_heading: PRINCE
dialog: Chevalier, if you will have your
dialog: money now, you must fight for it.
dialog: If you will be patient, maybe I will
dialog: pay you something another time.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Your Grace, if I am so tame as to
dialog: take this, then I must give up an
dialog: honorable and lucrative occupation.
speaker_heading: PRINCE
dialog: I have said all there is to be said.
dialog: I am at your disposal for whatever
dialog: purposes you wish. Good night.
text: He exits.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN HOUSE - DAY
text: Roderick, Captain Galgenstein and Minister Galgenstein.
scene_heading: MINISTER GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Was he cheated?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: In so far as I can tell these things
dialog: -- no. I believe the Chevalier won
dialog: the money fairly.
scene_heading: MINISTER GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Hmm-mmmm.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: What are the Chevalier's intentions?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I am not sure. The Prince told him
dialog: quite clearly that if he wished to
dialog: have the money, he would have to
dialog: fight for it.
scene_heading: MINISTER GALGENSTEIN
dialog: A meeting with the Prince of
dialog: Turbingen is impossible.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: The Prince left him only that
dialog: choice.
text: The Captain and the Minister walk a few steps away and
text: speak in whispers.
text: Then they return to Roderick.
scene_heading: MINISTER GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Will you be able to return here
dialog: tomorrow without arousing suspicion?
scene_heading: INT. CHEVALIER'S APARTMENTS - DAY
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Tell them I intend to demand
dialog: satisfaction from the Prince.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: But they will prevent a meeting at
dialog: whatever the cost.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Have no fear. It will come out well
dialog: for me.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I believe they will deport you.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: I have faced that problem before.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: But, if they send you away, then
dialog: what is to become of me?
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: (with a smile)
dialog: Make your mind easy, you shall not
dialog: be left behind, I warrant you. Do
dialog: take a last look at your barracks,
dialog: make your mind easy, say a farewell
dialog: to your friends in Berlin. The dear
dialog: souls, how they will weep when they
dialog: hear you are out of the country,
dialog: and, out of it, you shall go.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: But how, sir?
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN HOUSE - BERLIN - DAY
text: Roderick, Captain Galgenstein and Minister Galgenstein.
scene_heading: MINISTER GALGENSTEIN
dialog: The King has determined to send the
dialog: Chevalier out of the country.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: When is he to go?
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Has he sent the challenge yet?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Not yet, but I believe he intends
dialog: to.
scene_heading: MINISTER GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Then this must be done tomorrow.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: What is to be done?
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: You say he drives after breakfast
text: and before dinner. When he comes
text: out to his carriage a couple of
text: gendarmes will mount the box, and
dialog: the coachman will get his orders to
dialog: move on.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: And his baggage?
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: Oh! That will be sent after him. I
dialog: have a fancy to look into that red
dialog: box which contains his papers, you
dialog: say; and at noon, after parade,
dialog: shall be at the inn. You will not
dialog: say a word to any one there
dialog: regarding the affair, and will wait
dialog: for me at the Chevalier's rooms
dialog: until my arrival. We must force
dialog: that box. You are a clumsy hound,
dialog: or you would have got the key long
dialog: ago.
scene_heading: EXT. CHEVALIER'S APARTMENTS - DAY
text: Action as per voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: At ten o'clock the next morning, the
dialog: carriage of the Chevalier de Belle
text: Fast drew up as usual at the door of
dialog: his hotel, and the Chevalier came
text: down the stairs in his usual stately
dialog: manner.
text: Looking around and not finding his servant to open the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Where is my rascal, Lazlo?
speaker_heading: PRUSSIAN OFFICER
dialog: (standing by the
dialog: carriage)
dialog: I will let down the steps for your
dialog: honor.
text: No sooner does the Chevalier enter than the officer jumps
text: in after him, another mounts the box by the coachman, and
text: the latter begins to drive.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Good gracious! What is this?
speaker_heading: PRUSSIAN OFFICER
dialog: (touching his hat)
dialog: You are going to drive to the
dialog: frontier.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: It is shameful -- infamous! I
dialog: insist upon being put down at the
text: Austrian ambassador's house.
speaker_heading: PRUSSIAN OFFICER
dialog: I have orders to gag your honor if
dialog: you cry out, and to give you this
dialog: purse containing ten thousand
dialog: frederics if you do not.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Ten thousand? But the scoundrel
dialog: owes me seventy thousand.
speaker_heading: PRUSSIAN OFFICER
dialog: Your honor must lower his voice.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: All Europe shall hear of this!
speaker_heading: PRUSSIAN OFFICER
dialog: As you please.
text: Both lapse into silence.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: The coach drives by. Suddenly -- "boom," the alarm cannon
text: begins to roar.
scene_heading: INT. COACH - DAY
speaker_heading: PRUSSIAN OFFICER
dialog: Do not be alarmed. The alarm cannon
text: only signals a deserter.
text: Chevalier nods.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: The coach drives by and action as described.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: Hearing the sound of the alarm
dialog: cannon, the common people came out
text: along the road, with fowling-pieces
text: and pitch-forks, in hopes to catch
text: the truant. The gendarmes looked
dialog: very anxious to be on the lookout
dialog: for him too. The price of a
dialog: deserter was fifty crowns to those
dialog: who brought him in.
scene_heading: EXT. SAXON CUSTOM-HOUSE - DAY
text: The black and white barriers came in view at last hard by
text: Bruck, and opposite them the green and yellow of Saxony.
text: The Saxon custom-house officers came out.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: I have no luggage.
speaker_heading: PRUSSIAN OFFICER
dialog: The gentleman has nothing
dialog: contraband.
text: The Prussian officers, grinning, hand the Chevalier the
text: purse and take their leave of their prisoner with much
dialog: respect.
dialog: The Chevalier de Belle Fast gives them three frederic a-
dialog: piece.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Gentlemen, I wish you a good day.
dialog: Will you please go to the house from
dialog: whence we set out this morning, and
dialog: tell my man there to send my baggage
dialog: on to Three Kings at Dresden?
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Then ordering fresh horses, the
text: Chevalier set off on his journey for
dialog: that capital. I need not tell you
dialog: that I was the Chevalier.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - HOTEL DES TROIS COURONNES - DAY
text: Roderick reading a letter over his breakfast in bed.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER (V.O.)
dialog: From the Chevalier de Belle Fast to
dialog: Roderick James, Esquire, Gentilhomme
dialog: Anglais. At the Hotel des trois
dialog: Couronnes, Dresden, Saxe. My dear
dialog: Roderick -- This comes to you by a
dialog: sure hand, no other than Mr. Lumpit,
dialog: of the English mission, who is
dialog: acquainted, as all Berlin will be
dialog: directly, with our wonderful story.
dialog: They only know half as yet; they
dialog: only know that a deserter went off
dialog: in my clothes, and all are in
dialog: admiration of your cleverness and
dialog: valor.
scene_heading: INT. CHEVALIER'S ROOM - DAY
dialog: Action as per description in letter.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER (V.O.)
dialog: As I lay in my bed two and a half
dialog: hours after your departure, in comes
dialog: your ex-captain, Galgenstein.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
dialog: (in his imperious
dialog: Dutch manner)
dialog: Roderick! Are you there?
dialog: No answer.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN
text: The rogue is gone out.
text: Action as per voice over.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER (V.O.)
dialog: Straightaway he makes for the red
dialog: box where I keep my love letters, my
dialog: glass eye which I used to wear, my
dialog: two sets of Paris teeth, and my
dialog: other private matters that you know
text: of. He first tries a bunch of keys,
dialog: but none of them fit the English
text: lock. Then he takes out of his
text: pocket a chisel and hammer, and
dialog: falls to work like a professional
text: burglar, actually bursting open the
dialog: little box! Now was my time to act!
text: I advance towards him armed with an
dialog: immense water-jug. I come
text: noiselessly up to him just as he has
dialog: broken the box, and, with all my
dialog: might, I deal him such a blow over
text: the head as smashes the water-jug to
text: bits, and sends the captain with a
text: snort lifeless to the ground. Then
dialog: I ring all the bells in the house;
text: and shout, and swear, and scream,
dialog: "Thieves! -- Thieves! -- Landlord!
dialog: -- Murder! -- Fire!" until the whole
text: household comes tumbling up the
dialog: stairs.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Where is my servant? Who dares to
dialog: rob me in open day? Look at the
dialog: villain whom I find in the act of
dialog: breaking my chest open! Send for
dialog: the police, send for his Excellency
dialog: the Austrian Minister! All Europe
dialog: shall know of this insult!
speaker_heading: LANDLORD
dialog: Dear heaven! We saw you go away
dialog: three hours ago.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Me! Why, man, I have been in bed
dialog: all morning. I am ill -- I have
dialog: taken physic -- I have not left the
dialog: house this morning! Where is that
dialog: scoundrel, Lazlo? But, stop! Where
dialog: are my clothes and wig?
speaker_heading: CHAMBERMAID
dialog: I have it -- I have it! Lazlo is
dialog: off in your honor's dress.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: And my money -- my money! Where is
dialog: my purse with forty-eight frederics
dialog: in it? But we have one of the
text: villains left, Officers, seize him.
speaker_heading: LANDLORD
dialog: (more and more
dialog: astonished)
dialog: It's the young Herr Galgenstein.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: What! A gentleman breaking open my
dialog: trunk with hammer and chisel --
dialog: impossible!
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER (V.O.)
dialog: Herr Galgenstein was returning to
text: life by this time, with a swelling
text: on his skull as big as a saucepan;
text: and the officers carried him off,
dialog: and, to make a long story short,
text: poor Galgenstein is now on his way
dialog: to Spandau; and his uncle, the
dialog: Minister of Police Galgenstein, has
dialog: brought me five hundred louis, with
dialog: a humble request that I would leave
dialog: Berlin forthwith, and hush up this
dialog: painful matter.
scene_heading: INT. GERMAN PALACE - BALLROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick, the Chevalier and the Duke of Wurttemberg.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The Chevalier de Belle Fast was in
dialog: particularly good order with the
dialog: Duke of Wurttemberg, whose court
dialog: was, at this period, the most
dialog: brilliant in all Europe.
text: The Duke of Wurttemberg chatting with ballet dancers, who
dialog: will perform at the party.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: He spent fabulous sums on the
dialog: ballets and operas. All the
dialog: ballerinas were pretty, and they all
dialog: boasted that they had all at least
dialog: once made their amorous sovereign
dialog: happy.
text: Roderick and the Chevalier kissing hands, hobnobbing with
text: the nobility, and dancing minuets.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: There was not a party of the
dialog: nobility to which the two Irish
dialog: gentlemen were not invited, and
dialog: admired, nor where we did not make
dialog: the brave, the high-born and the
dialog: beautiful talk to us. There was no
dialog: man in Europe more gay in spirits,
dialog: more splendid in personal
dialog: accomplishment, than young Roderick
dialog: James.
scene_heading: EXT. GERMAN STREET - DAWN
text: Roderick and the Chevalier in a comfortable coach, on
text: their way home to bed, pass troops marching out on early
dialog: parade.
scene_heading: INT. COACH - DAWN
text: Roderick sinks back into the comfortable cushion and
text: yawns.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: What a delightful life did we now
dialog: lead! I knew I was born a
dialog: gentleman, from the kindly way in
dialog: which I took to the business, as
dialog: business certainly it is.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - GERMANY - DAY
text: Roderick in a tub, being washed by a servant.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: For though it seems all pleasure,
dialog: yet I assure any low-bred persons
dialog: who may chance to read this, that
dialog: we, their betters, have to work as
dialog: well as they; though I did not rise
dialog: until noon, yet had I not been up at
dialog: play until long past midnight?
scene_heading: INT. ANOTHER BEDROOM - GERMANY - DAY
text: His hair being done.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I came into it at once, and as if I
dialog: had never done anything else all my
dialog: life. I had a gentleman to wait
dialog: upon me, a French friseur to dress
dialog: my hair of a morning.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: A candle-lit supper.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I knew the taste of chocolate as by
dialog: intuition almost, and could
dialog: distinguish between the right
dialog: Spanish and the French before I had
dialog: been a week in my new position.
scene_heading: INSERTS - JEWELRY
text: Action and cuts as voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I had rings on my fingers, watches
dialog: in both my fobs, trinkets, and
dialog: snuff-boxes, of all sorts, and each
text: outvying the other in elegance.
scene_heading: INT. RECEPTION ROOM - GERMANY - DAY
dialog: As described.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I had the finest natural taste for
dialog: lace and china of any man I ever
dialog: knew.
scene_heading: EXT. STABLES - GERMANY - DAY
dialog: Buying horses.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I could judge a horse as well as any
dialog: dealer in Germany. I could not
dialog: spell, but I could speak German and
text: French cleverly.
scene_heading: INT. DRESSING ROOM - GERMANY - DAY
text: Roderick being fitted for clothes.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I had at least twelve suits of
dialog: clothes; three richly embroidered
text: with gold, two laced with silver;
text: one of French grey, silver-laced and
dialog: lined with chinchilla. I had damask
text: morning robes, to which a peacock's
text: tail is as sober as a Quaker's drab
dialog: skirt.
scene_heading: INT. ORANGERY - DAY
text: Action as voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I took lessons on the guitar, and
dialog: sang French catches exquisitely.
dialog: Where, in fact, was there a more
dialog: accomplished gentleman than Roderick
dialog: James?
scene_heading: INT. GAMING ROOM - GERMANY - NIGHT
text: Action as per voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: How have we had the best blood, and
dialog: the brightest eyes, too, of Europe
text: throbbing round the table as I and
dialog: the Chevalier have held the cards
dialog: and the bank against some terrible
dialog: player, who was matching some
dialog: thousands out of his millions
dialog: against our all which was there on
dialog: the baize!
scene_heading: INT. GAMING ROOM - GERMANY - NIGHT
text: Roderick dealing a faro bank.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Our principles were: play grandly,
dialog: honorably. Be not, of course, cast
dialog: down at losing; but, above all, be
dialog: not eager at winning, as mean souls
dialog: are.
scene_heading: INT. GAMING ROOM - GERMANY - NIGHT
text: Action as voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: When the Duke of Courland brought
text: fourteen lackeys each with bags of
dialog: florins, and challenged our bank to
dialog: play against the sealed bags, what
dialog: did we ask?
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Sir, we have but eighty thousand
dialog: florins in bank, or two hundred
dialog: thousand at three months; if your
dialog: highness' bags do not contain more
dialog: than eight thousand, we will meet
dialog: you.
dialog: Playing.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And we did, and after eleven hours
dialog: play, in which our bank was at one
dialog: time reduced to two hundred and
dialog: three ducats, we won seventeen
text: thousand florins off him.
text: Four crowned heads look on at the game, and an imperial
text: princess, when Roderick turns up the ace of hearts, bursts
text: into tears.
scene_heading: INT. MASQUERADE BALL - NIGHT
text: Roderick and a girl.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Nor need I mention my successes
dialog: among the fairer portion of the
dialog: creation. One of the most
dialog: accomplished, the tallest, the most
dialog: athletic, and the handsomest
dialog: gentleman in Europe, as I was then,
dialog: a young fellow of my figure could
dialog: not fail of having advantages, which
dialog: a person of my spirit knew very well
dialog: how to us.
scene_heading: INT. BOUDOIR - NIGHT
text: Making love to a masked lady.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: Charming Schuvaloff.
scene_heading: INT. COACH - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: Black-eyed Sczortarska.
scene_heading: INT. BOUDOIR - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Dark Valdez.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Do you expect me to believe that
dialog: your lover brought you here tonight?
speaker_heading: VALDEZ
dialog: Yes. He brought me in his carriage,
dialog: and he will call for me at midnight.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: And he doesn't care about me?
speaker_heading: VALDEZ
dialog: He is only curious to know who you
dialog: are.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: If his love were like mine, he would
dialog: not permit you to come here.
speaker_heading: VALDEZ
dialog: He loves me, as I love you.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Will he wish to know the details of
dialog: this night?
speaker_heading: VALDEZ
dialog: He will believe that it will please
dialog: me if he asks about it, and I shall
dialog: tell him everything except some
dialog: circumstances which might humiliate
dialog: him.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Tender Hegenheim.
scene_heading: INT. BOUDOIR - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Brilliant Langeac.
text: Roderick takes from his portfolio a little jacket of very
text: fine transparent skin, eight inches long and closed at one
text: end, and which by way of a pouch string at its open end,
text: has a narrow pink ribbon.
text: He displays it to her, she looks at it, and laughs.
speaker_heading: LANGEAC
dialog: I will put in on you myself.
text: She puts it on, out of shot.
speaker_heading: LANGEAC
dialog: There you are, dressed by my hand.
dialog: It is nearly the same thing; but
dialog: despite the fineness and
text: transparency of the skin, the little
dialog: fellow pleases me less well in
dialog: costume. It seems that this
dialog: covering degrades him, or degrades
dialog: me -- one of the other.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Both, my angel. It was Love who
dialog: invented these little jackets: for
dialog: he had to ally himself with
dialog: Precaution.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM OFF A BALLROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick making love to the Countess von Trotha. Enter
text: the Count, in the uniform of a Colonel.
speaker_heading: COUNT
dialog: I entered here, monsieur, at a bad
dialog: moment for you; it seems that you
dialog: love this lady.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Certainly, monseigneur, does not
dialog: Your Excellency consider her worthy
dialog: of love?
speaker_heading: COUNT
dialog: Perfectly so; and what is more, I
dialog: will tell you that I love her, and
dialog: that I am not of a humor to put up
dialog: with rivals.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Very well! Now that I know it, I
dialog: will no longer love her.
speaker_heading: COUNT
dialog: Then you yield to me.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: On the instant. Everyone must yield
dialog: to such a nobleman as you.
speaker_heading: COUNT
dialog: Very well; but a man who yields
text: takes to his legs.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: That is a trifle strong.
speaker_heading: COUNT
dialog: Take to your legs, low Irish dog.
text: Roderick smiles at him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Your Excellency has wantonly
dialog: insulted me. That being so, I
dialog: conclude that you hate me,
dialog: Monseigneur, and that hence you
dialog: would be glad to remove me from the
dialog: number of the living. In this wish,
dialog: I can and will satisfy Your
dialog: Excellency.
scene_heading: EXT. BEAUTIFUL GARDEN - EARLY MORNING
text: Roderick's sword duel with the Count.
dialog: Details to be worked out.
scene_heading: INT. BILLIARD ROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick watches the Chevalier play with a Prussian
dialog: officer, Lieutenant Dascher.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: It was my unrivaled skill with
dialog: sword and pistol, and readiness to
dialog: use them, that maintained the
dialog: reputation of the firm.
text: Towards the end of the game, Dascher, seeing that he is
text: losing, makes an unfair stroke, so obvious that the marker
text: tells him so to his face.
text: Lieutenant Dascher, for whom the stroke wins the game,
text: takes the money which is in the stake bag, and puts it in
text: his pocket, paying no attention to the marker's
text: adjurations, or to Roderick's.
text: Roderick, who is without his sword, reaches for a billiard
text: cue and swings it at Dascher's face.
text: He wards off the blow with his arm, drawing his sword and
text: runs at Roderick, who is unarmed.
text: The marker, a sturdy young man, catches Dascher around the
dialog: waist and prevents murder.
speaker_heading: DASCHER
dialog: I see that you are without your
dialog: sword, but I believe you are a man
dialog: of mettle. Will you give me
dialog: satisfaction?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I shall be delighted; but you have
dialog: lost and you must pay me the money
dialog: before we meet, for, after all, you
dialog: cannot pay me when you are dead.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER OFFICER
dialog: I will undertake to pay you the 20
dialog: louis, but only tomorrow morning at
dialog: the meeting.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY
text: On the field, there are six people waiting with Dascher,
text: and his seconds. Dascher takes 20 louis from his pocket
text: and hands them to Roderick, saying:
speaker_heading: DASCHER
dialog: I may have been mistaken, but I mean
dialog: to make you pay deadly for your
dialog: brutality.
text: Roderick takes the money and puts it in his purse with the
text: utmost calm, making no reply to the other's boasting.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (privately)
dialog: It is distasteful to kill a
dialog: scoundrel -- that should be work for
text: a hangman.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: To risk one's life against such
dialog: people is an imposition.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: I risk nothing, for I am certain to
dialog: kill him.
speaker_heading: CHEVALIER
dialog: Certain?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Perfectly certain, because I shall
dialog: make him tremble.
text: He takes his station between two trees, about four paces
text: apart, and draws a pair of dueling pistols.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: You have only to pace yourself at
dialog: ten paces difference, and fire
dialog: first. The space between these two
dialog: trees is the place where I choose to
dialog: walk back and forth. You may walk
dialog: too, if you wish, when it is my turn
dialog: to fire.
dialog: No one could have explained his intentions more clearly or
text: spoken more calmly.
speaker_heading: DASCHER
dialog: But we must decide who is to have
text: the first shot.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: There is no need of that. I never
dialog: fire first; and, in any case, you
dialog: have that right.
text: Dascher places himself at the specified distance.
text: Roderick walks slowly back and forth between the two trees
text: without looking at him.
text: Dascher takes aim and fires, missing.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (with the greatest
dialog: composure)
dialog: You missed me, sir. I was sure you
dialog: would. Try again.
dialog: The others think he is mad, and had expected some kind of
text: discussion between the parties, but not a bit of it.
text: Dascher takes careful aim and fires a second shot, again
text: missing Roderick.
text: Without a word, but in a firm and confident manner,
text: Roderick fires his first shot into the air.
text: Dascher looks amazed. Then, aiming at Dascher with his
text: second pistol, he hits him in the center of the forehead
text: and stretches him out dead on the ground.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: Roderick and Chevalier traveling in their coach.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Thus is will be seen that our life,
dialog: for all its splendor was one of
dialog: extreme difficulty and danger,
dialog: requiring high talents and courage
dialog: for success, and sudden and
text: unexpected departures.
text: They meet a four-wheel carriage, drawn by two horses,
text: carrying a master and a servant.
text: The driver of the four-wheel carriage wants Roderick's
text: driver to make way for him.
text: Roderick's driver protests that if he does, he will upset
text: his master in the ditch, but the other insists.
text: Roderick addresses the master, a handsome young man, and
text: asks him to order his driver to make way for him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I am posting, monsieur, and
dialog: furthermore I am a foreigner.
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: Monsieur, here in Saxony, the post
dialog: has no special right, and if you are
dialog: a foreigner, you must admit that you
dialog: have no greater claim than mine,
dialog: since I am in my own country.
text: At that, Roderick gets out and holding his drawn-sword
text: tells the stranger to get out, or to make way for him.
text: The stranger replies, with a smile, that he has no sword
dialog: and that, in any case, he will not fight for such a silly
dialog: reason.
text: He tells Roderick to get back in his chaise, and he makes
dialog: way for him.
scene_heading: INT. GAMING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick and the Chevalier running a faro bank when an
text: important lady suffers a huge loss.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The ladies were passionately fond of
dialog: play, and hence would often arise no
dialog: small trouble to us; for the truth
dialog: most be told, that the ladies loved
dialog: to play, but not to pay. The point
dialog: of honor is not understood by the
dialog: charming sex; and it was with the
dialog: greatest difficulty that we could
dialog: keep them from the table, could get
dialog: their money if they lost or, if they
dialog: paid, prevent them from using the
dialog: most furious and extraordinary means
dialog: of revenge.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAWN
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: On this evening, the lady of high
dialog: rank, after I had won a considerable
dialog: sum in diamonds and pearls from her,
text: sent her lover with a band of cut-
dialog: throats to waylay me.
text: Roderick and the Chevalier are sound asleep in their
text: carriage when they are awakened by a violent jolt, upon
text: which the carriage overturns in the middle of the road.
text: The Chevalier is underneath, and screams from the pain in
text: his right arm, which he thinks is broken.
text: Their servant forces the door open to help them out,
text: telling them that the two postilions have fled.
text: Roderick easily gets out of the carriage through the door,
text: which is above him, but the Chevalier, unable to move
text: because of his disabled arm, has to be pulled out.
text: His piercing shrieks make Roderick laugh, because of the
text: strange oaths with which he interlards his prayers.
text: From the carriage, Roderick takes his dueling pistols,
dialog: and sword.
text: Roderick tells his servant to mount and to looking for
text: armed peasants in the vicinity; money in hand, he leaves.
text: The Chevalier has lain down on the hard ground, groaning
text: and in no condition to resist robbers.
text: Roderick makes his own preparations to sell his fortune
dialog: and his life at the highest price.
text: His carriage is close to the ditch, and he unhitches the
text: horses, tieing them to the wheels and the pole in a
text: circle, and stations himself behind them with weapons.
text: In this predicament, Roderick cannot help laughing at the
text: poor Chevalier, who is writhing like a dying dolphin on a
text: seashore, and uttering the most pitiful execrations, when
text: a mare, whose back was turned to him, take it into her
text: empty head to empty her bladder on him. There is nothing
dialog: to be done; he has to put up with the whole stinking rain,
text: and to forgive Roderick's laughter, which he has not the
dialog: strength to hold in.
text: The chill wind and the silence are suddenly broken by an
text: attack, which is half-hearted and uncertain, by the lady's
text: lover, and his hesitant band of six cut-throats.
text: Some falter and run away as soon as Roderick fires his
dialog: pistol.
text: The leader and two heartier followers engage Roderick.
text: During the fight, they mortally wound the helpless
text: Chevalier and two of them are killed.
text: After they flee, Roderick kneels by the Chevalier, who
text: utters some appropriate last words, then dies.
text: His servant finally arrives at full gallop, shouting at
text: the top of his voice, and followed by a band of peasants,
text: each with his lantern, come to his rescue. There are ten
text: or twelve of them, all armed with muskets, and all ready
dialog: to obey his orders.
scene_heading: EXT. SPA - HOTEL - DAY
text: Roderick's carriage arrives.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: After making suitable arrangements
dialog: for the Chevalier's burial, in
dialog: proper accord with his church, I
dialog: traveled to Spa, which was now in
dialog: season, alone, to continue my
dialog: profession which formerly had the
dialog: support of my friend and mentor.
scene_heading: INT. GAMING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Crowds surround Roderick.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I was by this time one of the best-
dialog: known characters in Europe; and the
dialog: fame of my exploits, my duels, my
dialog: courage at play, would bring crowds
dialog: round me in any public society where
dialog: I appeared.
scene_heading: INT. CASINO - NIGHT
text: Attractive women alone, while men are at the gaming table.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The passion for play is stronger
dialog: than the passion for gallantry; the
dialog: gamester at Spa has neither time to
dialog: stop to consider the merits of a
dialog: woman, nor the courage to make
dialog: sacrifices for her.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN IN SPA - DAY
text: The Countess of Cosgrove walks beside her husband, Sir
text: William Cosgrove, who is in a wheelchair. They are
text: accompanied by their young son, Lord Brookside, and two
dialog: servants.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: In evoking the recollections of
dialog: these days, I have nothing but
dialog: pleasure. I would if I could say as
dialog: much of a lady who will henceforth
dialog: play a considerable part in the
dialog: drama of my life -- I mean the
dialog: Countess of Cosgrove, whose fatal
dialog: acquaintance I made at Spa, very
dialog: soon after the tragic events which
dialog: caused me to quit Germany.
text: Closer shot of the Countess.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Victoria, Countess of Cosgrove. A
dialog: Countess and a Viscountess in her
dialog: own right.
text: Closer shot of Sir William Cosgrove.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: She was the wife of her cousin, the
dialog: Right Honorable Sir William Reginald
dialog: Cosgrove, Knight of the Bath, and
dialog: Minister to George II and George III
dialog: of several of the smaller courts of
dialog: Europe.
text: Closer shot of young Lord Brookside, walking behind them
text: in the care of his governor.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: She was the mother to Viscount
text: Brookside -- a melancholy, deserted,
dialog: little boy, about whom his father
dialog: was more than indifferent, and whom
dialog: his mother never saw.
scene_heading: INT. GAMING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Shots of Sir William Cosgrove being wheeled in, and at
text: play with Roderick, and some other gentlemen.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I made Sir William Cosgrove's
dialog: acquaintance as usual at the play-
dialog: table. One could not but admire the
dialog: spirit and gallantry with which he
dialog: pursued his favorite pastime; for,
text: though worn out with gout and a
dialog: myriad of diseases, a cripple
text: wheeled about in a chair, and
dialog: suffering pangs of agony, yet you
dialog: would see him every morning, and
dialog: every evening at his post behind the
text: delightful green cloth.
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: Hang it, Mr. Roderick James, you
dialog: have no more manners than a barber,
dialog: and I think my black footman has
dialog: been better educated than you; but
dialog: you are a young fellow of
dialog: originality and pluck, and I like
dialog: you, sir. because you seem
text: determined to go to the devil by a
dialog: way of your own.
text: Laughter at the table.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I am obliged to observe, Sir William
dialog: Cosgrove, that since you are bound
dialog: for the next world much sooner than
dialog: I am, I will depend on you to get
dialog: comfortable quarters arranged for
dialog: me.
text: Laughter.
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: Indeed, you are right, sir. Look at
dialog: me. Marriage has added forty years
dialog: to my life. I am dying, a worn-out
text: cripple, at the age of fifty. When
dialog: I took off Lady Cosgrove, there was
dialog: no man of my years who looked so
dialog: young as myself. Fool that I was!
dialog: I had enough with my pensions,
dialog: perfect freedom, the best society in
dialog: Europe -- and I gave up all these,
dialog: and married and was miserable. Take
dialog: a warning from me, Mr. Roderick, and
dialog: stick to the trumps. Do anything,
dialog: but marry.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Would you have me spend my life all
dialog: alone?
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: In truth, sir, yes, but, if you must
text: marry, then marry a virtuous drudge.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: The milkmaid's daughter?
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: Well, why not a milkmaid's daughter?
dialog: No man of sense need restrict
dialog: himself or deny himself a single
dialog: amusement for his wife's sake; on
dialog: the contrary, if he selects the
dialog: animal properly, he will choose such
dialog: a one as shall be no bar to his
dialog: pleasure, but a comfort in his hours
dialog: of annoyance. For instance, I have
dialog: got the gout; who tends me? A hired
dialog: valet who robs me whenever he has
dialog: the power. My wife never comes near
dialog: me. What friend have I? None in
dialog: the wide world. Men of the world,
dialog: as you and I are, don't make
dialog: friends, and we are fools for our
dialog: pains.
text: Polite laughter at the table.
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: My lady is a weak woman, but she is
dialog: my mistress. She is a fool, but she
dialog: has got the better of one of the
text: best heads in Christendom. She is
dialog: enormously rich, but somehow I have
dialog: never been so poor, as since I
dialog: married her. I thought to better
dialog: myself, and she has made me
dialog: miserable and killed me, and she
dialog: will do as much for my successor
dialog: when I'm gone.
text: There is a reflective silence at the table.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Has her ladyship a very large
dialog: income?
text: This question causes Sir William to burst out into a
text: yelling laugh, joined by the rest of the table, and makes
text: Roderick blush not a little at his gaucherie.
scene_heading: EXT. ORNAMENTAL GARDEN - SPA - NIGHT
text: A beautiful scene, lit by the flambeaux, held by a dozen
text: footmen. A small orchestra, playing in a Temple of Love,
text: some dancers, people gambling and lounging along a line of
dialog: trees.
text: Roderick approaches the Countess.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Despite my friend's strong warning.
dialog: I resolves to become acquainted with
dialog: his lady. Sir William Cosgrove was
dialog: dying. His widow would be a rich
dialog: prize. Why should I not win her,
dialog: and, with her, the means of making
dialog: in the world that figure which my
dialog: genius and inclination desired?
dialog: When I determine, I look upon the
dialog: thing as done.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Charming lady, tell me the truth and
dialog: earn my gratitude. Have you a
dialog: lover?
text: The countess laughs.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Have you had one?
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Never.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: But, for a time... a passing fancy?
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Not even that.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: How can I believe that there is not
text: a man who has inspired desires in
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Not one.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Have you not a man whom you value?
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: That man has, perhaps, not yet been
dialog: born.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: What! You have not met a man worthy
dialog: of your attention?
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Many worthy of attention; but
dialog: valuing is something more. I could
dialog: value only someone whom I loved.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Then you have never loved? Your
text: heart is empty.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Your word "empty" makes me laugh.
dialog: Is it fortunate, or unfortunate? If
dialog: it is fortunate, I congratulate
dialog: myself. If it is unfortunate, I do
dialog: not care, for I am not aware of it.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
text: It is nonetheless a misfortune, and
dialog: you will know it when you love.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: But if, when I love, I am unhappy, I
dialog: will know that my empty heart was my
dialog: good fortune.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: That is true, but it seems to me
dialog: impossible that you should be
text: unhappy in love.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: It is only too possible. Love
dialog: requires a mutual harmony which is
dialog: difficult, and it is even more
dialog: difficult to make it last.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I agree; but God put us on earth to
dialog: take that risk.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: A man may need to do that, and find
text: it amusing; but a girl is bound by
dialog: other laws.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I believe you, and I see I must
dialog: hasten to leave, for otherwise I
dialog: shall become the unhappiest of men.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: How so?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: By loving you, with no hope of
dialog: possessing you.
text: She laughs.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: You want my heart?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: It is my only object.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: To make me wretched in two weeks.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: To love you until death. To
dialog: subscribe to all your commands.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: The amusing thing is that you
dialog: deceive me without knowing, if it is
dialog: true that you love me.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Deceiving someone without knowing it
dialog: is something new for me. If I do
dialog: not know it, I am innocent.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: But you deceive me nonetheless if I
dialog: believe you, for it will not be in
dialog: your power to love me when you love
dialog: me no longer.
text: Roderick laughs and kisses her.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Be so good as to tell me with whom
dialog: you think you are?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
text: With a woman who is completely
dialog: charming, be she a princess or a
dialog: woman of the lowest condition, and
dialog: who, regardless of her rank, will
dialog: show me some kindness, tonight.
text: She laughs.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: And if she does not choose to show
dialog: you some kindness?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Then I will respectfully take leave
dialog: of her.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: You will do as you please. It seems
dialog: to me that such a matter can hardly
dialog: be discussed until after people know
dialog: each other. Do you not agree?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes -- but I am afraid of being
dialog: deceived.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Poor man. And, for that reason, you
dialog: want to begin where people end?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I ask only a payment on account
dialog: today -- after that, you will find
dialog: me undemanding, obedient and
dialog: discreet.
text: She laughs. He kisses her again. They exit.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - SPA - NIGHT
text: Coach and four moves slowly along.
scene_heading: INT. COACH - NIGHT
text: They kiss. She gently struggles as he tries to undo her
text: dress. He stops.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Will we always leave it at this?
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Always, my dear one, never any
dialog: further. Love is a child to be
text: pacified with trifles. A full diet
dialog: can only kill it.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I know better than you do. Love
dialog: wants a more substantial fare, and
dialog: if it is stubbornly withheld, it
text: withers away.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Our abstinence makes our love
dialog: immortal. If I loved you a quarter
dialog: of an hour ago, now I should love
dialog: you even more. But I should love
dialog: you less if you exhausted my joy by
dialog: satisfying all my desires.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Let us give each other complete
dialog: happiness, and let us be sure that
dialog: as many times as we satisfy our
dialog: desires, they will each time be born
dialog: anew.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: My husband has convinced me of the
dialog: contrary.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Sir William Cosgrove is a man who is
dialog: dying, and yet I envy him more than
dialog: any man in Christendom. He enjoys a
dialog: privilege of which I am deprived.
dialog: He may take you in his arms whenever
dialog: he pleases, and no veil keeps his
text: senses, his eyes, his soul from
dialog: enjoying your beauty.
text: She silences him with her fingertips.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Shall I tell you something -- I
dialog: believed what was called love came
dialog: after the union -- and I was
dialog: surprised when my husband, making me
dialog: a woman, made me know it only by
text: pain, unaccompanied by any pleasure.
dialog: I saw that my imaginings had stood
dialog: me in better stead. And so we
dialog: became only friends, seldom sleeping
dialog: together and arousing no curiosity
dialog: in each other, yet on good terms for
dialog: a while, as whenever he wanted me, I
dialog: was at his service, but since the
dialog: offering was not seasoned with love,
dialog: he found it tasteless, and seldom
dialog: demanded it.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: O, my dearest love. Enough! I beg
dialog: you. Stop believing in your
dialog: experience. You have never known
dialog: love. My very soul is leaving me!
dialog: Catch it on your lips, and give me
dialog: yours!
text: They kiss ardently.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: To make a long story short, her
dialog: ladyship and I were in love six
dialog: hours after we met; and after I once
dialog: got into her ladyship's good graces,
dialog: I found innumerable occasions to
dialog: improve my intimacy, and was
text: scarcely ever out of her company.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTESS' HOUSE - SPA - DUSK
text: Action as per voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I shall never forget the
dialog: astonishment of Sir William Cosgrove
dialog: when, on one summer evening, as he
text: was issuing out to the play-table,
text: in his sedan-chair, her ladyship's
text: barouche and four came driving into
text: the courtyard of the house which
dialog: they inhabited and, in that
text: carriage, by her ladyship's side,
dialog: sat no other than "the vulgar Irish
dialog: adventurer," as she was pleased to
dialog: call me.
text: Sir William makes the most courtly of bows and grins, and
text: waves his hat in as graceful a manner as his multiplicity
text: of illness permits, and her ladyship and Roderick reply to
text: the salutation with the utmost politeness and elegance on
dialog: their part.
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S APARTMENT - SPA - NIGHT
dialog: Making ardent love.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Without you, my dearest, I might
dialog: have died without ever knowing love.
dialog: Inexpressible love! God of nature!
dialog: Bitterness than which nothing is
dialog: sweeter, sweetness than which
dialog: nothing is more bitter. Divine
dialog: monster which can only be defined by
dialog: paradoxes.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Let me give a thousand kisses to
dialog: that heavenly mouth which has told
dialog: me that I am happy.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: As soon as I saw you loved me, I was
dialog: pleased, and I gave you every
dialog: opportunity to fall more in love
dialog: with me, being certain that, for my
dialog: part, I would never love you. But
dialog: after our first kiss, I found that I
dialog: had no power over myself. I did not
dialog: know that one kiss could matter so
dialog: much.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: We then spent an hour in the most
dialog: eloquent silence except that, from
dialog: time to time, her ladyship cried
dialog: out: "Oh, my God. Is it true -- I
dialog: am not dreaming?"
scene_heading: INT. GAMING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick enters and approaches a table at which Sir
text: William Cosgrove, who is drunk, is at play with several
dialog: other jovial fellows.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Sir William Cosgrove, with his
dialog: complication of ills, was dying
dialog: before us by inches. He was
text: continually tinkered up by doctors,
dialog: and, what with my usual luck, he
dialog: might be restored to health and live
dialog: I don't know how many years. If
dialog: Cosgrove would not die, where was
dialog: the use of my pursing his lady? But
dialog: my fears were to prove groundless,
dialog: for on that very night, patient
dialog: nature would claim her account.
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: Good evening, Mr. James, have you
dialog: done with my lady?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I beg your pardon?
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: Come, come, sir. I am a man who
dialog: would rather be known as a cuckold
dialog: than a fool.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I think, Sir William Cosgrove, you
dialog: have had too much drink. Your
dialog: chaplin, Mr. Hunt, has introduced me
dialog: into the company of your lady to
dialog: advise me on a religious matter, of
dialog: which she is a considerable expert.
text: Sir William Cosgrove greets this line with a yell of
text: laughter. His laugh is not jovial or agreeable, but
text: rather painful and sardonic, and ends in a violent fit of
dialog: coughing.
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: Gentlemen, see this amiable youth!
dialog: He has been troubled by religious
dialog: scruples, and has flown for refuge
dialog: to my chaplin, Mr. Hunt, who has
dialog: asked for advise from my wife, Lady
dialog: Cosgrove, and between them both,
dialog: they are confirming my ingenious
dialog: young friend in his faith. Did you
dialog: ever hear of such doctors and such a
dialog: disciple?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Faith, sir, if I want to learn good
dialog: principles, it's surely better I
dialog: should apply for them to your lady,
dialog: and your chaplin than to you?
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: (laughing, but pretty
dialog: red)
dialog: He wants to step into my shoes! He
dialog: wants to step into my shoes!
text: Roderick stares at him coldly.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Well, if my intentions are what you
dialog: think they are -- if I do wish to
dialog: step into your shoes, what then? I
dialog: have no other intentions than you
dialog: had yourself. Lady Cosgrove's
dialog: wealth may be great, but am I not of
dialog: a generous nature enough to use it
dialog: worthily? Her rank is lofty, but
dialog: not so lofty as my ambition. I will
dialog: be sworn to muster just as much
dialog: regard for my Lady Cosgrove as you
dialog: ever showed her; and if I win her,
dialog: and wear her when you are dead and
dialog: gone, corbleu, knight, do you think
dialog: that it will be the fear of your
dialog: ghost will deter me?
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: Is it not a pleasure, gentlemen, for
dialog: me, as I am drawing near the goal,
dialog: to find my home such a happy one; my
dialog: wife so fond of me, that she is even
dialog: now thinking of appointing a
dialog: successor? Isn't it a comfort to
text: see her; like a prudent housewife,
dialog: getting everything ready for her
dialog: husband's departure?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I hope that you are not thinking of
dialog: leaving us soon, knight?
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: Not so soon, my dear, as you may
dialog: fancy perhaps. Why, man, I have
dialog: been given over many times these
dialog: four years, and there was always a
dialog: candidate or two waiting to apply
dialog: for the situation. Who knows how
dialog: long I may keep you waiting.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Sir, let those laugh that win.
speaker_heading: SIR WILLIAM
dialog: I am sorry for you Mr. James. I'm
dialog: grieved to keep you or any gentleman
dialog: waiting. Had you not better to
dialog: arrange with my doctor or get the
dialog: cook to flavor my omelette with
dialog: arsenic? What are the odds,
dialog: gentlemen, that I don't live to see
dialog: Mr. James hang yet?
text: There is laughter around the table, and Sir William starts
text: dealing the cards.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Dies at Spa, in the Kingdom of
dialog: Belgium, the Right Honorable Sir
dialog: William Cosgrove, Knight of the
dialog: Bath, Member of Parliament for
dialog: Cosgrove and Devonshire and many
dialog: years His Majesty's representative
dialog: at various European courts. He hath
text: left behind him a name which is
dialog: endeared to all his friends for his
dialog: manifold virtues and talents, a
dialog: reputation justly acquired in the
dialog: service of His Majesty, and an
dialog: inconsolable widow to deplore his
dialog: loss.
text: Sir Williams keels over dead.
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH - DAY
text: The wedding of Roderick and the Countess. The service is
text: preformed by Reverend Hunt, her ladyship's chaplain.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: A year from that day, on the
dialog: fifteenth of May, in the year 1773,
dialog: I had the honor and happiness to
dialog: lead to the altar Victoria, Countess
dialog: of Cosgrove, widow of the late Right
dialog: Honorable Sir William Cosgrove, K.B.
dialog: I had procured His Majesty's
dialog: gracious permission to add the name
dialog: of my lovely lady to my own, and,
dialog: henceforward, assumed the title of
dialog: James Cosgrove.
scene_heading: EXT. A GARDEN - LONDON - DAY
dialog: The Wedding reception.
text: Roderick and the Countess are approached by young Lord
text: Brookside, aged 12.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: My Lord Brookside, come and embrace
dialog: your papa!
text: Brookside walks slowly towards them, and shakes his fist
text: in Roderick's face.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: He, my father! I would as soon call
dialog: one of your ladyship's footmen,
dialog: papa!
text: Roderick laughs, as the Countess unsuccessfully tries to
dialog: get the boy to shake hands.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Lord Brookside, you have offended
dialog: your father.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: Mother, you have offended my father.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: It was a declaration of war to me,
dialog: as I saw at once; though I declare I
dialog: was willing enough to have lived
dialog: with him on terms of friendliness.
dialog: But as men serve me, I serve them.
dialog: Who can blame me for my after-
text: quarrels with this young reprobate,
dialog: or lay upon my shoulders the evils
dialog: which afterwards befell?
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: Three carriages, each with four horses, proceed along the
dialog: picturesque track.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: After we had received the
dialog: congratulations of our friends in
dialog: London -- I and Victoria set off to
dialog: visit our country estate, Castle
dialog: Hackton, where I had never as yet
dialog: set foot.
scene_heading: INT. CARRIAGE - DAY
dialog: Roderick and his Lady.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The first days of a marriage are
dialog: commonly very trying; and I have
dialog: known couples, who lived together
text: like turtle-doves for the rest of
text: their lives, peck each other's eyes
dialog: out almost during the honeymoon. I
dialog: did not escape the common lot. In
dialog: our journey westwards, my Lady
dialog: Cosgrove chose to quarrel with me
dialog: because I had pulled out a pipe of
dialog: tobacco. Lady Cosgrove was a
dialog: haughty woman, and I hate pride, and
dialog: I promise you that, in this instant,
dialog: I overcame this vice in her.
text: Roderick blows smoke into the Countess' face. She is
text: shocked into an apprehensive silence.
scene_heading: INT. COACH - DAY
text: Young Lord Brookside with his governor, glowering and
text: petulant. A parrot, in a cage, on his lap.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: As the carriages drive past, there is a band, floral
text: arches, flags, church bells ringing. The parson and the
text: farmers assemble in their best by the roadside, and the
text: school-children and the laboring people are loud in their
dialog: "hurrahs" for her ladyship.
text: Roderick flings pennies among the cheering tenants, from
text: two bags of coppers, stored in the carriage for the
dialog: occasion.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Fifty, or so, servants have turned out to greet their
text: mistress, and their new master. The land steward, who is
text: the senior servant, introduces the others -- the clerk of
text: the kitchen, clerk of the stables, head gardener, ladies
text: in waiting, butler, valet, chef, cook.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I had not arrived at the pitch of
dialog: prosperity, and having, at thirty
dialog: years of age, by my own merits and
dialog: energy, raised myself to one of the
dialog: highest social positions that any
dialog: man in England could occupy, I
dialog: determined to enjoy myself as
dialog: becomes a man of quality for the
dialog: remainder of my life.
scene_heading: INT. STABLES - DAY
text: Roderick and his beautiful horses.
scene_heading: EXT. A STREAM - DAY
text: Roderick and some companions fishing.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELDS - DAY
text: Roderick and his friends riding.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELDS - DAY
text: Roderick and friends shooting.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Roderick having his portrait painted by a miniaturist.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: But it was not meant for me to
dialog: finish my life as a man of quality
dialog: and position. Indeed, I am one of
dialog: those born clever enough at gaining
dialog: a fortune, but incapable of keeping
dialog: one; for the qualities and energy,
dialog: which lead a man to accept the
dialog: first, are often the very causes of
dialog: his ruin in the latter case; indeed,
dialog: I know of no other reason for the
dialog: misfortunes which finally befell me.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - COUNTESS' BEDROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: At the end of the year, Lady
dialog: Cosgrove presented me with a son;
dialog: Patrick Cosgrove, I called him, in
dialog: compliment to my royal ancestry, but
dialog: what more had I to leave him than a
dialog: noble name?
scene_heading: EXT. COSGROVE HOUSE - LONDON - DAY
text: Two coaches pull up, and the Countess and Roderick exit.
text: Servants remove their luggage and baby Patrick.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: We spent the season in London at our
text: house in Berkeley Square.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: The Countess alone and depressed.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Her ladyship and I lived, for a
dialog: while, pretty separate when in
dialog: London. She preferred quiet, or, to
dialog: say the truth, I preferred it, being
text: a great friend to a modest, tranquil
dialog: behavior in woman and a taste for
dialog: the domestic pleasures.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - LONDON - DAY
text: Several cuts of the Countess, caring for the infant,
dialog: Patrick.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Besides, she was a mother, and had
dialog: great comfort in the dressing,
dialog: educating, and dandling of our
dialog: little Patrick for whose sake it was
dialog: fit that she should give up the
dialog: pleasures and frivolities of the
dialog: world; so she left that part of the
dialog: duty of every family of distinction
dialog: to be performed by me.
scene_heading: INT. THEATER LOBBY - NIGHT
text: Roderick arriving with a party of friends, escorting a
dialog: beautiful woman.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - LONDON - DAY
text: Countess crying and having an argument with Roderick.
text: Live dialogue under voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Her ladyship's conversations with me
dialog: were characterized by a stupid
text: despair, or a silly blundering
dialog: attempt at forced cheerfulness,
dialog: still more disagreeable; hence, our
dialog: intercourse was but trifling, and my
text: temptations to carry her into the
dialog: world or to remain in her society of
dialog: necessity exceedingly small.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM - LONDON - NIGHT
text: A drunken Roderick rudely demands his lady to entertain
text: their guests. She rushes from the room in tears.
text: Dialogue starts scene, goes under for voice over, then
text: ends scene.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: She would try my temper, at home,
dialog: too, in a thousand ways. When
dialog: requested by me to entertain the
dialog: company with conversation, wit, and
dialog: learning, of which she was a
dialog: mistress; or music, of which she was
dialog: an accomplished performer, she
dialog: would, as often as not, begin to
dialog: cry, and leave the room. My company
dialog: from this, of course, fancied I was
dialog: a tyrant over her; whereas, I was
dialog: only a severe and careful guardian
dialog: of a silly, bad-tempered and weak-
dialog: minded lady.
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - DAY
text: Roderick strolling arm-in-arm with his Countess.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Despite the utter distaste with
dialog: which I now regarded Lady Cosgrove,
dialog: and, although I took no particular
dialog: pains to disguise my feelings in
dialog: general, yet she was of such a mean
dialog: spirit that she pursued me with her
dialog: regard, and would kindle up at the
dialog: smallest kind word I spoke to her.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE STUDY - DAY
text: Roderick and accountant. Her ladyship is signing various
dialog: documents, and orders for payment.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And, in these fits of love, she was
dialog: the most easy creature in the world
dialog: to be persuaded, and would have
dialog: signed away her whole property, had
dialog: it been possible. And, I must
dialog: confess, it was with very little
dialog: attention on my part that I could
dialog: bring her into good humor, and, up
dialog: to the very last day of our being
dialog: together, would be reconciled to me,
dialog: and fondle me, if I addressed her a
dialog: single kind word. Such is female
dialog: inconsistency.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - DAY
text: Roderick and the Countess fighting about her refusal to
text: sign some papers. Live dialogue under voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: She was luckily very fond of her
dialog: youngest son, and through him I had
text: a wholesome and effectual hold on
dialog: her; for if in any of her tantrums
dialog: or fits of haughtiness, she
dialog: pretended to have the upper-hand, to
dialog: assert her authority against mine,
dialog: to refuse to sign such papers as I
dialog: might think necessary for the
dialog: distribution of our large and
dialog: complicated property.
text: Roderick picks up baby Patrick.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I would have Master Patrick carried
dialog: off to Chiswick for a couple of
dialog: days; and I warrant me his lady-
dialog: mother could hold out no longer and
dialog: would agree to anything I proposed.
text: The Countess rushes to the window to see the child being
text: put into a carriage.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - DAY
text: Another quarrel.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Lady Cosgrove and I did not quarrel
dialog: more than fashionable people do, and,
dialog: for the first three years, I never
dialog: struck my wife but when I was in
dialog: liquor.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - DAY
text: Roderick throws a knife at young Brookside. The knife
text: digs into an expensive antique chest, just missing the
text: young Brookside's head.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: When I flung the carving-knife at
dialog: Brookside, I was drunk, as
dialog: everybody present can testify, but
dialog: as for having any systematic scheme
dialog: against the poor lad, I can declare
dialog: solemnly that, beyond merely hating
dialog: him, I am guilty of no evil towards
dialog: him.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - DAY
text: The Countess discovers Roderick making love to the child's
dialog: nurse.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Do what one would to please her, my
dialog: lady would never be happy or in good
dialog: humor. And soon she added a mean,
dialog: detestable jealousy to all her other
dialog: faults, and would weep and wring her
dialog: hands, and threaten to commit
dialog: suicide, and I know not what.
text: She screams and shouts something about suicide.
text: Her son, Brookside, comes running in and consoles her.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Her death would have been no comfort
dialog: to me, as I leave any person of
dialog: common prudence to imagine; for that
text: scoundrel of a young Brookside who
dialog: was about to become my greatest
dialog: plague and annoyance, would have
dialog: inherited every penny of the
dialog: property.
scene_heading: INT. COSGROVE HOUSE - LONDON - RODERICK'S STUDY - DAY
text: Roderick, bored and distracted, sits before a stack of
text: bills and papers, with his accountant.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Humble people envy us great men, and
dialog: fancy that our lives are all
dialog: pleasure. But the troubles of
dialog: poverty, the rascality of agents,
text: the quibbles of lawyers are endless.
dialog: My life at this period seemed to
dialog: consist of nothing but drafts of
dialog: letters and money-brokers relative
dialog: to the raising of money, and the
dialog: insuring of Lady Cosgrove's life,
dialog: and innumerable correspondence with
dialog: upholsterers, decorators, cooks,
dialog: horsekeepers, bailiffs, and
dialog: stewards.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - GARDENS - DAY
dialog: Various cuts.
text: Birthday fete for Patrick who is now five years old.
text: Gaily colored tents, ponies, a puppet show, expensive
dialog: presents.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My own dear boy, Patrick, was now
dialog: five years old, and was the most
dialog: polite and engaging child ever seen;
dialog: it was a pleasure to treat him with
dialog: kindness and distinction; the little
dialog: fellow was the pink of fashion,
dialog: beauty, and good breeding. In fact,
dialog: he could not have been otherwise,
dialog: with the care both his parents
dialog: bestowed upon him, and the
dialog: attentions which were lavished upon
dialog: him in every way.
text: Brookside and Roderick.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Whereas, young Brookside had grown
dialog: to be a very nasty and disrespectful
dialog: fellow indeed. In my company, he
dialog: preserved the most rigid silence,
text: and a haughty, scornful demeanor,
dialog: which was so much the more
dialog: disagreeable because there was
dialog: nothing in his behavior I could
dialog: actually take hold of to find fault
dialog: with, although his whole conduct was
text: insolent and supercilious to the
dialog: highest degree.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - LIBRARY - DAY
text: Brookside sitting alone reading a book.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: In addition to this, the lad was
dialog: fond of spending the chief part of
text: his time occupied with the musty old
dialog: books, which he took out of the
dialog: library, and which I hate to see a
text: young man of spirit pouring over.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
dialog: Brookside and the Countess.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The insubordination of that boy was
dialog: dreadful. He used to quote passages
dialog: of "Hamlet" to his mother, which
dialog: made her very angry.
text: Brookside quoting "Hamlet."
text: The Countess begins to cry and leaves the room.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - RODERICK'S STUDY
text: Roderick caning young Brookside.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: As it is best to nip vice in the
dialog: bud, and for a master of a family to
dialog: exercise his authority in such a
dialog: manner as that there may be no
dialog: question about it, I took every
dialog: opportunity of coming to close
text: quarters with Master Brookside.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Many guests around the table.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: He always chose the days when
dialog: company, or the clergy, or gentry of
dialog: the neighborhood were present, to
dialog: make violent, sarcastic, and
dialog: insolent speeches.
text: Brookside begins to fondle and caress Patrick.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: Dear child, what a pity it is I am
dialog: not dead for your sake! The
dialog: Cosgroves would then have a worthy
dialog: representative, and enjoy all the
dialog: benefits of the illustrious blood of
dialog: the James' of Duganstown, would they
dialog: not, Mr. James Cosgrove?
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S STUDY - NIGHT
text: Roderick caning Brookside again. The boy bears the
dialog: punishment without crying.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Roderick's reunion with his mother.
dialog: Present are the Countess, Patrick, Lord Brookside and
dialog: others.
text: Mrs. James flings herself into her son's arms with a
text: scream, and with transports of joy, which can only be
text: comprehended by women who have held, in their arms, an
text: only child, after a twelve-year absence from him.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Roderick and mother feeding Patrick.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - GARDEN - DAY
text: Roderick and mother playing with Patrick in the garden.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Mother at dinner with the family, in a strained
dialog: atmosphere.
scene_heading: INT. PATRICK'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick and his mother talk in whispers near the bed of
text: the sleeping Patrick.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Ah, Roderick, it's a blessing to see
dialog: that my darling boy has attained a
dialog: position I always knew was his due,
dialog: and for which I pinched myself to
dialog: educate him. Little Patrick is a
dialog: darling boy, and you live in great
dialog: splendor, but how long will it last?
dialog: Your lady-wife knows she has a
dialog: treasure she couldn't have had, had
dialog: she taken a duke to marry her, but
dialog: if, one day, she should tire of my
text: wild Roderick and his old-fashioned
dialog: Irish ways, or if she should die,
dialog: what future would there be for my
dialog: son and grandson?
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S STUDY - CASTLE HACKTON - NIGHT
text: Roderick and his mother.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: You have not a penny of your own,
dialog: and cannot transact any business
dialog: without the Countess' signature.
dialog: Upon her death, the entire estate
dialog: would go to young Brookside, who
dialog: bears you little affection. You
dialog: could be penniless tomorrow, and
dialog: darling Patrick at the mercy of his
dialog: stepbrother.
scene_heading: INT. MOTHER'S ROOM - CASTLE HACKTON - NIGHT
text: Roderick and his mother.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: I shall tell you a secret -- I shall
dialog: not rest until I see you Earl of
dialog: Duganstown, and my grandson, a Lord
dialog: Viscount.
text: She smooths down Roderick's hair.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: This head would become a coronet.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - GARDEN - DAY
text: Roderick and Mother slowly walking and talking. Young
text: Patrick, ahead of them sitting in a small cart, pulled by
text: a lamb.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: These things entail considerable
dialog: expense, and you will need your
text: lady's blessing, but the young boy
dialog: forms the great bond of union
dialog: between you and her ladyship, and
dialog: there is no plan of ambition you
dialog: could propose in which she would not
dialog: join for the poor lad's benefit, and
dialog: no expense she will not eagerly
dialog: incur, if it might be any means be
text: shown to tend to his advancement.
dialog: You have important friends, and they
dialog: can tell you how these things are
dialog: done.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON GAMING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Standing away from the play tables, Roderick chats with
text: Lord West, a fat giant of a man.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And, to be sure, I did know someone
dialog: who knew precisely how these things
dialog: were done, and this was the
dialog: distinguished solicitor and former
dialog: Government Minister, Lord West,
dialog: whose acquaintance I made, as I had
text: so many others, at the gaming table.
speaker_heading: LORD WEST
dialog: Do you happen to know Gustavus
dialog: Adolphus, the thirteenth Earl of
dialog: Crabs?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: By name only.
speaker_heading: LORD WEST
dialog: Well, sir, this nobleman is one of
dialog: the gentlemen of His Majesty's
dialog: closet, and one with whom our
dialog: revered monarch is on terms of
dialog: considerable intimacy. I should say
dialog: you would be wise to fix upon this
dialog: nobleman your chief reliance for the
dialog: advancement of your claim to the
dialog: Viscounty which you propose to get.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON CLUB - DAY
text: Roderick having lunch with Lord West and the Earl of
text: Crabs.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And for a five-hundred guinea fee,
dialog: paid to his City law-firm, Lord West
dialog: kindly arranged a meeting with that
dialog: old scamp and swindler, Gustavus
dialog: Adolphus, the thirteenth Earl of
text: Crabs.
speaker_heading: EARL OF CRABS
dialog: Mr. Cosgrove, when I take up a
dialog: person, he or she is safe. There is
dialog: no question about them any more. My
dialog: friends are the best people. I
dialog: don't mean the most virtuous, or,
dialog: indeed, the least virtuous, or the
dialog: cleverest, or the stupidest, or the
dialog: richest, or the best born, but the
dialog: "best" -- in a word, people about
dialog: whom there is no question. I cannot
dialog: promise you how long it will take.
dialog: You can appreciate it is not an easy
dialog: matter. But any gentlemen with an
dialog: estate, and ten-thousand a-year
dialog: should have a peerage.
scene_heading: INT. DRAWING ROOM - EARL OF CRABS - DAY
text: Roderick being introduced to three noblemen, including the
dialog: Duke of Rutland.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The striving after this peerage, I
dialog: consider to have been one of the
dialog: most unlucky dealings at this
dialog: period. I made unheard of
dialog: sacrifices to bring it about. I can
dialog: tell you bribes were administered,
dialog: and in high places too -- so near
dialog: the royal person of His Majesty that
dialog: you would be astonished were I to
dialog: mention what great personages
dialog: condescended to receive our loans.
scene_heading: INT. DRAWING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick gives a beautiful diamond to a fat princess on
text: her birthday. He is applauded by the other guests.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I lavished money here, and diamonds
dialog: there.
scene_heading: EXT. FARMLAND - DAY
text: Roderick and the seller, riding over a prospective
text: property. A broker shows them a survey map of the
dialog: property.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I bought lands at ten times there
dialog: value.
scene_heading: INT. SALON - LONDON - NIGHT
text: A musical evening.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I gave repeated entertainments to
dialog: those friends to my claims who,
dialog: being about the royal person, were
dialog: likely to advance it.
scene_heading: INT. STATELY HOME - DAY
text: Roderick buying pictures.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I purchased pictures and articles of
text: vertu at ruinous prices.
scene_heading: EXT. RACES - DAY
text: Roderick laughing and paying a bet.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I lost many a bet to the royal
dialog: dukes, His Majesty's brothers.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY
text: Reviewing the company of troops.
text: Roderick, the Earl of Crabs, the Countess, Patrick and
text: Brookside, several princes and noblemen and the Duke of
dialog: Rutland.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: One of the main causes of expense
dialog: which this ambition of mine entailed
dialog: upon me was the fitting out and
text: arming of a company of infantry from
dialog: the Hackton estates, which I offered
dialog: to my gracious sovereign for the
dialog: campaign against the American
dialog: rebels. These troops, superbly
dialog: equipped and clothed, were embarked
dialog: at Portsmouth in the year 1778.
scene_heading: INT. ST. JAMES - RECEPTION ROOM - DAY
dialog: George III meeting people and stopping to talk to
text: Roderick. Present also is the Duke of Rutland.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And the patriotism of the gentlemen
dialog: who raised them was so acceptable at
dialog: court that, on being presented by my
dialog: Lord Crabs, His Majesty condescended
dialog: to notice me particularly and said:
speaker_heading: GEORGE III
dialog: That's right, Mr. Cosgrove, raise
dialog: another company, and go with them,
dialog: too!
scene_heading: INT. COFFEE HOUSE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Crabs was really one of the most
dialog: entertaining fellows in the world,
dialog: and I took a sincere pleasure in his
dialog: company, besides the interest and
dialog: desire I had in cultivating the
dialog: society of the most important
dialog: personages of the realm.
text: Roderick clumsily tries to engage in conversation with the
dialog: famed Dr. Johnson, on the subject of a book or play, of
text: the day, and is rebuffed for his trouble.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: If I were you, Mr. Cosgrove, I
dialog: should mind my horses and tailors
dialog: and not trouble myself about
dialog: letters.
text: Laughter, Roderick bristles.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Dr. Johnson, I think you misbehave
dialog: most grossly, treating my opinions
dialog: with no more respect than those of a
dialog: schoolboy. You fancy, sir, you know
dialog: a great deal more than me, because
dialog: you quote your "Aristotle" and
dialog: "Plato," but can you tell me which
dialog: horse will win at Epsom Downs next
dialog: week? Can you shoot the ace of
dialog: spades ten times without missing?
dialog: If so, talk about Aristotle and
dialog: Plato with me.
speaker_heading: BOSWELL
dialog: (roars)
dialog: Do you know who you're speaking to?!
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Hold your tongue, Mr. Boswell, I had
dialog: no right to brag of my Greek,
dialog: gentlemen, and he has answered me
dialog: very well.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (pleased)
dialog: Do you know ever a rhyme for
dialog: Aristotle?
speaker_heading: GOLDSMITH
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Port, if you please.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Waiter, bring on of Captain James'
dialog: rhymes for Aristotle.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: And we had six rhymes for Aristotle
dialog: before we left the coffee house that
dialog: evening.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON CLUB - NIGHT
speaker_heading: EARL OF CRABS
dialog: Henri, this is Mr. James Cosgrove,
dialog: who wishes to arrange a dinner party
dialog: next week for sixty guests.
speaker_heading: HENRI
dialog: I am at your service, Mr. Cosgrove.
dialog: How much do you wish to spend?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: As much as possible.
speaker_heading: HENRI
dialog: As much as possible?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes, for I wish to entertain
dialog: splendidly.
speaker_heading: HENRI
dialog: All the same, you must name an
dialog: amount.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: It is entirely up to you. I want
dialog: the best.
speaker_heading: EARL OF CRABS
dialog: May I suggest five hundred guineas?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Will that be enough?
speaker_heading: HENRI
dialog: Last month, the Duke of Suffolk
dialog: spent no more.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: All right, five hundred guineas.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - RODERICK'S STUDY - DAY
text: Roderick is seated at a large table, stacked high with
text: bills and letters; his accountant is seated next to him,
text: aided by a bookkeeper. Roderick looks at each bill and
text: his accountant explains the charge.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The life I was leading was that of a
dialog: happy man, but I was not happy.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - LONG GALLERY - DAY
text: Roderick, walking with big strides, leads Brookside by his
text: ear. Little Patrick runs alongside, pleading for his
dialog: brother.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Papa, please don't flog Brookside
dialog: today. It wasn't his fault --
dialog: really is wasn't.
text: Roderick ignores him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: By now, young Brookside was of so
text: wild, savage, and insubordinate a
dialog: nature that I never had the least
dialog: regard for him. As he grew up to be
dialog: a man, his hatred for me assumed an
dialog: intensity quite wicked to think of
dialog: and which, I promise you, I returned
dialog: with interest.
text: He drags Brookside into his study, slamming the door
text: behind him.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY - DAY
text: Roderick alone. Brookside enters with a pistol.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: (grinding his teeth)
dialog: Look you now, Mister Roderick James,
dialog: from this moment on, I will submit
dialog: to no further chastisement from you!
dialog: Do you understand that?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Give me that pistol.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: Take heed, Mister James. I will
dialog: shoot you if you lay hands on me
dialog: now, or ever again. Is that
dialog: entirely clear to you, sir?
text: Roderick stares hard at him, then he laughs and sits down.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I decided, at once, to give up that
dialog: necessary part of his education.
dialog: In truth, he then became the most
text: violent, daring, disobedient,
dialog: scapegrace, that ever caused an
dialog: affectionate parent pain; he was
text: certainly the most incorrigible.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - BROOKSIDE'S ROOM - DAY
text: Brookside smashing a chair over the head of his governor,
dialog: Reverend Hunt.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Twice or thrice, Reverend Hunt
dialog: attempted to punish my Lord
dialog: Brookside; but I promise you the
dialog: rogue was too strong for him, and
dialog: leveled the Oxford man to the
text: ground with a chair, greatly to the
dialog: delight of little Patrick, who cried
dialog: out: "Bravo, Brooksy! Thump him,
dialog: thump him!"
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - GARDEN - DAY
text: Brookside and Patrick.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: With the child, Brookside was,
dialog: strange to say, pretty tractable.
dialog: He took a liking to the little
dialog: fellow -- I like him the more, he
dialog: said, because he was "half a
dialog: Cosgrove."
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - BALLROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Another day, it was Patrick's
dialog: birthday, we were giving a grand
dialog: ball and gala at Hackton, and it was
dialog: time for my Patrick to make his
dialog: appearance among us.
text: There is a great crowding and tittering as the child comes
text: in, led by his half-brother, who walks into the dancing-
text: room in his stockinged feet, leading little Patrick by the
text: hand, paddling about in the great shoes of the older.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: (very loudly)
dialog: Don't you think he fits my shoes
dialog: very well, Sir Richard Wargrave?
text: Upon which, the company begins to look at each other and
text: to titter, and his mother comes up to Lord Brookside with
text: great dignity, seizes the child to her breast, and says:
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: From the manner in which I love this
dialog: child, my lord, you ought to know
dialog: how I would have loved his elder
dialog: brother, had he proved worthy of any
dialog: mother's affection.
text: Brookside is stunned by his mother's words.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: Madam, I have borne as long as
dialog: mortal could endure the ill-
dialog: treatment of the insolent Irish
dialog: upstart, whom you have taken into
dialog: your bed. It is not only the
dialog: lowness of his birth, and the
dialog: general brutality of his manners
dialog: which disgusts me, but the shameful
dialog: nature of his conduct towards your
dialog: ladyship, his brutal and
text: ungentlemanlike behavior, his open
dialog: infidelity, his habits of
dialog: extravagance, intoxication, his
text: shameless robberies and swindling of
dialog: my property and yours. It is these
dialog: insults to you which shock and annoy
dialog: me more than the ruffian's infamous
dialog: conduct to myself. I would have
dialog: stood by your ladyship, as I
dialog: promised, but you seem to have taken
dialog: latterly your husband's part; and,
dialog: as I cannot personally chastise this
dialog: low-bred ruffian, who, to our shame
dialog: be it spoken, is the husband of my
dialog: mother, and as I cannot bear to
dialog: witness his treatment of you, and
dialog: loathe his horrible society as if it
dialog: were the plague, I am determined to
dialog: quit my native country, at least
dialog: during his detested life, or during
dialog: my own.
text: Bursting into tears, Lady Cosgrove leaves the room.
text: Roderick loses control, and rushes at Brookside, knocking
text: down Lords, Dukes and Generals, left and right, who try to
dialog: interfere.
text: The company is scandalizes by the entire incident.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON CLUB - NIGHT
text: Action as per voice over. Roderick is shunned.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: If I had murdered my lord, I could
dialog: scarcely have been received with
dialog: more shameful obloquy and slander
dialog: than now followed me in town and
dialog: country. My friends fell away from
dialog: me, and a legend arose of my cruelty
dialog: to my stepson.
scene_heading: INT. ST. JAMES - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My reception at court was scarcely
dialog: more cordial. On paying my respects
dialog: to my sovereign at St. James, His
dialog: Majesty pointedly asked me when I
dialog: had news of Lord Brookside. On
dialog: which I replied, with no ordinary
dialog: presence of mind:
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Sire, my Lord Brookside has set sail
dialog: to fight the rebels against Your
dialog: Majesty's crown in America. Does
dialog: Your Majesty desire that I should
dialog: send another company to aid him?
text: The King stares at Roderick, turns on his heel and quickly
text: leaves the presence-chamber.
text: Roderick is approached by the Duke of Rutland, who takes
text: him aside into an alcove.
scene_heading: DUKE OF RUTLAND
dialog: (speaking very
dialog: quietly)
dialog: Let me tell you, sir, that your
dialog: conduct has been very odiously
dialog: represented to the King, and has
dialog: formed the subject of royal comment.
dialog: The King has said, influenced by
dialog: these representations, that you are
dialog: the most disreputable man in the
text: three kingdoms, and a dishonor to
dialog: your name and country.
text: Roderick begins to sputter.
scene_heading: DUKE OF RUTLAND
dialog: Hear me out, please. It has been
dialog: intimated to His Majesty that you
dialog: had raised the American Company for
dialog: the sole purpose of getting the
dialog: young Viscount to command it, and so
dialog: get rid of him. And, further, that
dialog: you had paid the very man in the
dialog: company, who was ordered to dispatch
text: him in the first general action.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Thus it is that my loyalty is
dialog: rewarded, and my sacrifices in favor
dialog: of my country viewed!
scene_heading: DUKE OF RUTLAND
dialog: As for your ambitious hopes
dialog: regarding the Irish peerages, His
dialog: Majesty has also let it be known
dialog: that you have been led astray by
dialog: that Lord Crabs, who likes to take
dialog: money, but who has no more influence
dialog: to get a coronet than to procure a
dialog: Pope's tiara. And, if you have it
dialog: in mind to call upon Lord Crabs, you
dialog: will be disappointed. He left for
dialog: the continent on Tuesday, and may be
text: away for several months.
scene_heading: INT. LORD WEST'S OFFICE - DAY
dialog: Roderick and Lord West.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I insist upon being allowed to
dialog: appear before His Majesty and clear
dialog: myself of the imputations against
dialog: me, to point out my services to the
dialog: government, and to ask when the
dialog: reward, that had been promised me,
dialog: the title held by my ancestors, is
dialog: again to be revived in my person.
text: There is a sleepy coolness in the fat Lord West. He hears
text: Roderick with half-shut eyes. When he finishes his
text: violent speech, which he has made striding about the room,
text: Lord West opens one eye, smiles, and says:
speaker_heading: LORD WEST
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Have you done, Mr. Cosgrove?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: LORD WEST
dialog: Well, Mr. Cosgrove, I'll answer you
text: point by point. The King is
dialog: exceedingly averse to make peers, as
dialog: you know. Your claim, as you call
dialog: them, have been laid before him, and
dialog: His Majesty's gracious reply was,
dialog: that you were the most impudent man
dialog: in his dominions, and merited a
text: halter, rather than a coronet. As
dialog: for withdrawing your support from
dialog: us, you are perfectly welcome to
dialog: carry yourself whithersoever you
dialog: please. And, now, as I have a great
dialog: deal of occupation, perhaps you will
dialog: do me the favor to retire, or tell
dialog: me if there is anything else in the
dialog: world in which I can oblige you.
text: So saying, Lord West raises his hand lazily to the bell,
text: and bows Roderick out.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - RODERICK'S STUDY - DAY
text: Roderick and his accountant going over the bills which he
text: has heaped on the table.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The news of His Majesty's disregard
dialog: were not long in getting around,
dialog: and, in a very short time, all the
dialog: bills came down upon me together --
dialog: all the bills I had been contracting
dialog: for the years of my marriage. I
dialog: won't cite their amount; it was
dialog: frightful. I was bound up in an
dialog: inextricable toil of bills and
dialog: debts, or mortgages and insurances,
dialog: and all the horrible evils attendant
text: upon them.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - GROUNDS - DAY
text: Roderick walking alone.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Was it my own want of style, or my
dialog: want of a fortune? I know not. Now
dialog: I was arrived at the height of my
dialog: ambition, but both my skill and my
dialog: luck seemed to be deserting me.
dialog: Everything I touched, crumbled in my
dialog: hands; every speculation I had,
dialog: failed; every agent I trusted,
dialog: deceived me. My income was saddled
dialog: with hundreds of annuities, and
dialog: thousands of lawyers' charges, and I
dialog: felt the net drawing closer and
dialog: closer around me, and no means to
dialog: extricate myself from its toils.
dialog: All my schemes had turned out
dialog: failures.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON GAMING CLUB - NIGHT
text: Roderick at the gaming table.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My wife's moody despondency made my
dialog: house and home not over-pleasant;
dialog: hence, I was driven a good deal
dialog: abroad, where as play was the
dialog: fashion in every club, tavern, and
dialog: assembly, I, of course, was obliged
dialog: to resume my old habit, and to
dialog: commence as an amateur those games
dialog: at which I was once unrivaled in
dialog: Europe.
text: Roderick loses a large amount of money.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I had a run of ill-luck at play, and
dialog: was forced to meet my losses by the
dialog: most shameful sacrifices to the
dialog: money-lenders, and was compelled to
dialog: borrow largely upon my wife's
dialog: annuities, ensuring her ladyship's
dialog: life, which was the condition for
dialog: every loan against her property.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON OFFICE - INSURANCE BROKER - DAY
text: Roderick and the broker.
speaker_heading: BROKER
dialog: Your wife's life is as well known
dialog: among the insurance societies in
dialog: London, as any woman in Christendom,
dialog: and, I'm sorry to say there is not
dialog: one of them willing to place another
dialog: policy against her ladyship's life.
dialog: One of them even had the impudence
dialog: to suggest that your treatment of
dialog: the Countess did not render her life
dialog: worth a year's purchase.
scene_heading: EXT. STUD FARM - DAY
text: Roderick buying a horse.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: In the midst of my difficulties, I
dialog: promised to buy a little horse for
dialog: my dear little Patrick, which was to
dialog: be a present for his eighth
dialog: birthday, that was now coming on. I
dialog: may have had my faults, but no man
dialog: shall dare to say of me that I was
dialog: not a good and tender father.
text: Roderick admires the horse.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: It was a beautiful little animal,
dialog: and stood me in a good sum. I never
dialog: regarded money for that dear child.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: The horse kicks off one of the horse-boys who tries to
dialog: ride him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: But the horse was a bit wild, and he
text: kicked off one of the horse-boys who
dialog: rode him at first, and broke the
dialog: lad's leg.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: Roderick riding the horse. The horse-boy lies in the back
text: of a wagon.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: But he was a beautiful animal and
dialog: would make a fine horse for Patrick
text: after he had a bit of breaking-in.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - NEAR CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Roderick dismounts and gives the horse to one of the
dialog: horse-boys.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Timmy, take the injured lad to see
dialog: the doctor, and then bring the horse
dialog: to Doolan's farm, and tell him to
dialog: break him in thoroughly. Tell him
dialog: it's for little Patrick, and that
dialog: I'll be over to see him next week.
speaker_heading: HORSE-BOY
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: One more thing, and listen well, I
dialog: don't want little Patrick to know
dialog: where the horse is being kept. It's
dialog: going to be surprise for his
dialog: birthday.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Patrick rushes out to greet his father.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Hello, papa!
text: Roderick picks him up in his arms, and kisses him.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Did you buy the horse, papa?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Now, just have a little patience, my
dialog: boy. Your birthday isn't until next
dialog: week.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: But I will have it on my birthday,
dialog: won't I?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Well, we'll just have to wait and
dialog: see, won't we?
text: He walks up the steps holding Patrick, who hugs and kisses
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My son, little Patrick Cosgrove, was
dialog: a prince; his breeding and manners,
dialog: even at his early age, showed him to
dialog: be worthy of the two noble families
dialog: from whom he was descended, and I
dialog: don't know what high hopes I had for
dialog: the boy, and indulged in a thousand
dialog: fond anticipations as to his future
dialog: success and figure in the world, but
dialog: stern Fate had determined that I
dialog: should leave none of my race behind
dialog: me.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick is drunk. Patrick is brought in by his governor,
text: Hunt, to say good night. His kisses his mother first,
text: then approaches Roderick.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: (kissing him)
dialog: Good night, papa.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Good night, my little darling.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Papa?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: PATRICK
text: One of the boys in the stable told
dialog: Nelly that you've already bought my
dialog: horse, and that it's at Doolan's
dialog: farm, where Mick the groom is
dialog: breaking it in. Is that true, papa?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (angered)
dialog: What the devil? What kind of fools
dialog: do we have here? Pottle, who told
dialog: the lad this story?
speaker_heading: HUNT
dialog: I don't know, sir.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Then it's true! It's true! Oh,
dialog: thank you, papa! Thank you!
text: He hugs his father.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Promise me, Patrick, that you will
dialog: not ride the horse except in the
dialog: company of your father.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: (unconvincingly)
dialog: I promise, mama.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I promise your lordship a good
dialog: flogging if you even so much as go
text: to Doolan's farm to see him.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Yes, papa.
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Roderick is awakened by his valet and Hunt, the governor.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes...?
speaker_heading: VALET
dialog: I'm sorry to disturb you, sir, but
dialog: Mr. Hunt has something important to
dialog: tell you.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: HUNT
dialog: I think Master Patrick has disobeyed
dialog: your orders and stolen off to
dialog: Doolan's farm. When I went to the
dialog: lad's room this morning, his bed was
dialog: empty. One of the cooks said she
text: saw him go away before daybreak. He
dialog: must have slipped through my room
dialog: while I was asleep.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - STABLES - DAY
text: Roderick, in a rage, taking a great horse-whip, gallops
text: off after the child.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Roderick comes upon a sad procession of farmers, moaning
text: and howling, the black horse led by the hand, and, on a
text: door that some of them carry, little Patrick. He lies in
text: his little boots and spurs, and his little coat of scarlet
text: and gold. His face is quite white, and he smiles as he
text: holds a hand out to Roderick and says painfully:
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: You won't whip me, will you, papa?
text: Roderick bursts out into tears in reply.
scene_heading: INT. PATRICK'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Some doctors around the bed, Roderick and the Countess
text: anxiously waiting upon them.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The doctors were called, but what
dialog: does a doctor avail in a contest
dialog: with the grim, invincible enemy?
dialog: Such as came could only confirm our
dialog: despair by their account of the poor
text: child's case. His spine was
text: injured, the lower half of him was
text: dead when they laid him in bed at
dialog: home. The rest did not last long,
dialog: God help me! He remained yet for
dialog: two days with us, and a sad comfort
dialog: it was to think he was in no pain.
scene_heading: INT. PATRICK'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Roderick, Countess and Patrick.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: Papa, I beg you and mama to pardon
dialog: me for any acts of disobedience I
dialog: have been guilty of towards you.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: (weeping)
dialog: Oh, my little angel, you have done
dialog: nothing for which you need pardon.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Where is Brooksy? I would like to
dialog: see him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Your bother is in America fighting
dialog: the rebels.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Is he all right, papa?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes, he's fine.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Brooksy was better than you, papa,
dialog: he used not to swear so, and he
dialog: taught me many good things while you
dialog: were away.
text: Patrick takes a hand of his mother and of Roderick, in
text: each of his little clammy ones.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: I beg you not to quarrel so, but to
dialog: love each other, so that we might
dialog: meet again in heaven where Brooksy
dialog: told me quarrelsome people never go.
text: His mother is much affected by these admonitions, and
text: Roderick is too.
text: Patrick gives Roderick a ring from his finger, and a
text: locket to his mother.
dialog: He says that these gifts are so that they will not forget
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: At last, after two days, he died.
dialog: There he lay, the hope of my family,
dialog: the pride of my manhood, the link
dialog: which kept me and my Lady Cosgrove
dialog: together.
scene_heading: EXT. CHURCH - GRAVEYARD - DAY
dialog: Funeral.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I won't tell you with what splendor
dialog: we buried him, but what avail are
dialog: undertakers' feathers and heralds'
dialog: trumpery.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - STABLE - DAY
text: Roderick enters the stable and, after a few seconds, we
text: hear a pistol shot. He exits rapidly, the smoking pistol
text: still in his hand.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - VARIOUS - DAY AND NIGHT
text: The Countess: Praying. Waking up screaming. Fits of
text: crying. Severely depressed.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Lady Cosgrove, always vaporish and
dialog: nervous, after our blessed boy's
dialog: catastrophe, became more agitated
dialog: than ever, and plunged into devotion
dialog: with so much fervor that you would
dialog: have fancied her almost distracted
dialog: at times.
text: Countess sees visions.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: She imagined she saw visions. She
dialog: said an angel from heaven told her
dialog: that Patrick's death was a
dialog: punishment to her for her neglect of
dialog: her firstborn. Then she would
dialog: declare that Brookside was dead.
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S STUDY - DAY
text: Roderick and his accountant. Bills, bills, bills.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: By now, my financial affairs were
dialog: near to ruin. I could not get a
dialog: guinea from any money-dealer in
dialog: London. Our rents were in the hands
dialog: of receivers by this time, and it
dialog: was as much as I could do to get
dialog: enough money from the rascals to pay
dialog: my wine-merchants their bills. Our
dialog: property was hampered, and often as
dialog: I applied to my lawyers and agents
dialog: for money, would come a reply
dialog: demanding money of me for debts and
dialog: pretended claims which the rapacious
dialog: rascals said they had on me.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Mother arrives. Roderick greets her. Servants unload her
dialog: bags.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My mother was the only person who,
dialog: in my misfortune, remained faithful
dialog: to me -- indeed, she has always
dialog: spoken of me in my true light, as a
dialog: martyr to the rascality of others,
dialog: and a victim of my own generous and
text: confiding temper.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Mother supervising kitchen staff.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: She was an invaluable person to me
dialog: in my house, which would have been
text: at rack and ruin before, but for her
dialog: spirit of order and management and
dialog: her excellent economy in the
dialog: government of my rapidly dwindling
dialog: household staff.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - GARDEN - DAY
text: Roderick and his mother.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: If anything could have saved me from
dialog: the consequences of villainy in
dialog: others, it would have been the
dialog: admirable prudence of that worthy
dialog: creature.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DRAWING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Action as per voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: She never went to bed until all the
dialog: house was quiet and all the candles
dialog: out; you may fancy that this was a
dialog: matter of some difficulty with a man
dialog: of my habits who had commonly a
dialog: dozen of jovial fellows to drink
dialog: with me every night, and who
dialog: seldom, for my part, went to bed
dialog: sober.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Actions as per voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Many and many a night, when I was
text: unconscious of her attention, has
dialog: that good soul pulled my boots off,
dialog: and seen me laid by my servants snug
text: in bed, and carried off the candle
dialog: herself...
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Action as per voice over.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: ... and been the first in the
dialog: morning, too, to bring me my drink
dialog: of small beer. It was my mother's
dialog: pride that I could drink more than
dialog: any man in the country.
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S STUDY - NIGHT
text: Roderick and his mother holding a letter before a fire,
text: which slowly brings out the writing in lemon juice between
text: the widely-spaced lines of directions to her milliner.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My mother discovered that always,
dialog: before my lady-wife chose to write
dialog: letters to her milliner, she had
dialog: need of lemons to make her drink, as
dialog: she said, and this fact, being
dialog: mentioned to me, kind of set me
dialog: a-thinking.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (reading letter
dialog: aloud)
dialog: "This day, three years ago, my last
dialog: hope and pleasure in life was taken
dialog: from me, and my dear child was
dialog: called to Heaven. Where is his
dialog: neglected brother, whom I suffered
dialog: to grow up unheeded by my side, and
dialog: whom the tyranny of the monster to
dialog: whom I am united drove to exile,
dialog: and, perhaps to death? I pray the
text: child is still alive and safe.
dialog: Charles Brookside! Come to the aide
dialog: of a wretched mother, who
text: acknowledges her crime, her coldness
dialog: towards you, and now bitterly pays
dialog: for her error! What sufferings,
dialog: what humiliations have I had to
dialog: endure! I am a prisoner in my own
dialog: halls. I should fear poison, but
dialog: then I know the wretch has a sordid
dialog: interest in keeping me alive, and
dialog: that my death would be the signal
dialog: for his ruin. But I dare not stir
dialog: without my odious, hideous, vulgar
text: gaoler, the horrid Irish woman, who
text: purses my every step. I am locked
dialog: into my chamber at night, like a
dialog: felon, and only suffered to leave it
dialog: when ordered into the presence of my
dialog: lord, to be present at his orgies
dialog: with his boon-companions, and to
text: hear his odious converse as he
text: lapses into the disgusting madness
dialog: of intoxication."
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick, and the Countess and mother, at a silent dinner.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: It was not possible to recover the
dialog: name for whom the note was intended,
dialog: but it was clear that, to add to all
dialog: my perplexities, three years after
dialog: my poor child's death, my wife,
dialog: whose vagaries of temper and wayward
dialog: follies I had borne with for twelve
dialog: years, wanted to leave me. I
dialog: decided it best not to reveal to her
dialog: ladyship our discovery, that we
dialog: might still intercept and uncover
text: further schemes with might be afoot.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - VARIOUS - DAY AND NIGHT
text: A few cuts showing Mother keeping an eye on the Countess.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: Yet I was bound to be on my guard
dialog: that she should not give me the
dialog: slip. Had she left me, I was ruined
dialog: the next day. I set my mother to
dialog: keep sharp watch over the moods of
dialog: her ladyship, and you may be sure
dialog: that her assistance and surveillance
dialog: were invaluable to me. If I had
dialog: paid twenty spies to watch her lady,
dialog: I should not have been half so well
dialog: served as by the disinterested care
dialog: and watchfulness of my excellent
dialog: mother.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - GARDENS - DAY
text: Roderick walking with the Countess.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My Lady Cosgrove's relationship with
dialog: me was a singular one. Her life was
text: passed in a series of crack-brained
dialog: sort of alternation between love and
dialog: hatred for me. We would quarrel for
dialog: a fortnight, then we should be
dialog: friends for a month together
dialog: sometimes. One day, I was joking
dialog: her, and asking her whether she
dialog: would take the water again, whether
dialog: she had found another lover, and so
text: forth. She suddenly burst out into
dialog: tears, and, after a while, said to
dialog: me:
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Roderick, you know well enough that
dialog: I have never loved but you! Was I
dialog: ever so wretched that a kind word
dialog: from you did not make me happy?
dialog: Ever so angry, but the least offer
dialog: of good-will on your part did not
dialog: bring me to your side? Did I not
dialog: give a sufficient proof of my
dialog: affection for you in bestowing one
dialog: of the finest fortunes of England
dialog: upon you? Have I repined or rebuked
dialog: you for the way you have wasted it?
dialog: No, I loved you too much and too
dialog: fondly; I have always loved you.
dialog: From the first moment I saw you, I
dialog: saw your bad qualities, and trembled
dialog: at your violence; but I could not
dialog: help loving you. I married you,
dialog: though I knew I was sealing my own
dialog: fate in doing so, and in spite of
dialog: reason and duty. What sacrifice do
dialog: you want from me? I am ready to
dialog: make any, so you will but love me,
dialog: or, if not, that at least, you will
dialog: gently us me.
text: Roderick kisses her.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I was in a particularly good humor
dialog: that day, and we had a sort of
dialog: reconciliation.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - NIGHT
text: Roderick and his mother.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Depend on it, artful hussy has some
text: other scheme in her head now.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: The old lady was right, and I
dialog: swallowed the bait which her
dialog: ladyship had prepared to entrap me
dialog: as simply as any gudgeon takes a
dialog: hook.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Arrival of Mr. Newcombe, the money-broker.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I had hired a money-broker
dialog: especially to find some means of my
text: making a loan. After several months
dialog: without success, it was with some
dialog: considerable interest that I
dialog: received his visit.
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S STUDY - DAY
text: Roderick and the money-broker, Mr. Newcombe.
speaker_heading: NEWCOMBE
dialog: I have good news for you, Mr.
dialog: Cosgrove. The firm of Bracegirdle
dialog: and Chatwick, in the city of London,
dialog: are prepared to lend you 20,000
dialog: pounds, pledged against your
dialog: interest in the Edric mines. They
dialog: will redeem the encumbrances against
dialog: the property, which amount to some
dialog: 10,000 pounds, and take a twenty-
dialog: year working lease on the mines.
dialog: They will lend you the 20,000 pounds
dialog: against the lease income,
dialog: which they will apply to the loan as
dialog: it comes in, and they will make a
dialog: charge of 18% per annum interest on
dialog: the outstanding loan balance.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Mr. Newcombe, I have made some
dialog: difficult loans during the past few
dialog: years, at very onerous terms, but
dialog: 18% a year interest seems very stiff
dialog: indeed.
speaker_heading: NEWCOMBE
dialog: Considering your financial
dialog: circumstances, Mr. Cosgrove, it has
dialog: been impossible to find anyone at
dialog: all prepared to do any business with
dialog: you. I think you may count yourself
dialog: lucky to have this opportunity.
dialog: But, obviously, if you would reject
dialog: this offer, I shall keep trying to
dialog: find a better one.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: (after a pause)
dialog: I am prepared to accept the terms,
dialog: Mr. Newcombe.
speaker_heading: NEWCOMBE
dialog: There are a few other points we
dialog: should discuss. The loan agreement
dialog: can only be executed by her
dialog: ladyship's signature, and provided
dialog: that Bracegirdle and Chatwick can be
dialog: assured of her ladyship's freewill
dialog: in giving her signature.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Provided that they can be assured of
dialog: her ladyship's freewill? Are you
dialog: serious?
speaker_heading: NEWCOMBE
dialog: May I be quite frank with you?
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Yes, of course.
speaker_heading: NEWCOMBE
dialog: Mister Bracegirdle said to me that
dialog: he had heard her ladyship lives in
text: some fear of her life, and meditated
dialog: a separation, in which case, she
dialog: might later repudiate any documents
text: signed by herself while in durance,
dialog: and subject them, at any rate, to a
dialog: doubtful and expensive litigation.
dialog: They were quite insistent on this
dialog: point, and said they must have
dialog: absolute assurance of her ladyship's
dialog: perfect freewill in the transaction
dialog: before they would advance a shilling
dialog: of their capital.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: I see.
speaker_heading: NEWCOMBE
dialog: When I asked them in what form they
dialog: would accept her ladyship's
dialog: assurances, they said that they were
dialog: only prepared to accept them if her
dialog: ladyship confirms her written
dialog: consent by word of mouth, in their
text: presence, at their counting-house in
dialog: Birchin Lane, London. I requested
dialog: they come here, and save her
dialog: ladyship and yourself the
dialog: inconvenience of the trip to London,
dialog: but they declined, saying that they
dialog: did not wish to incur the risk of a
dialog: visit to Castle Hackton to
dialog: negotiate, as they were aware of how
dialog: other respectable parties, such as
dialog: Messrs. Sharp and Salomon had been
dialog: treated here.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
text: Roderick and his mother.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Depend on it, there is some
dialog: artifice. When once you get into
dialog: that wicked town, you are not safe.
text: There are scores of writs out
dialog: against you for debt. If you are
dialog: taken in London, and thrown into
dialog: prison, your case is hopeless.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Mother dear, we are now living off
dialog: our own beef and mutton. We have to
dialog: watch Lady Cosgrove within and the
dialog: bailiffs without. There are certain
dialog: situations in which people cannot
dialog: dictate their own terms; and faith,
dialog: we are so pressed now for money,
dialog: that I would sign a bond with old
dialog: Nick himself, if he would provide a
dialog: good round sum. With this money, we
dialog: can settle our principal debts and
dialog: make a fresh start.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Roderick, you must listen to me. As
dialog: soon as they have you in London,
dialog: they will get the better of my poor
dialog: innocent lad; and the first thing
dialog: that I shall hear of you will be
dialog: that you are in trouble. You will
dialog: be a victim of your own generous and
text: confiding nature.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - COUNTESS' BEDROOM
dialog: Roderick and the Countess.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Why go, Roderick? I am happy here,
dialog: as long as you are kind to me, as
dialog: you now are. We can't appear in
dialog: London as we ought; the little money
dialog: you will get will be spent, like all
dialog: the rest has been. Let us stay here
dialog: and be content.
text: She takes his hand and kisses it.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY
dialog: Mother and Roderick.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Humph! I believe she is at the
dialog: bottom of it -- the wicked schemer.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY
text: Roderick's carriage moving along.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: We did not start in state, you may
dialog: be sure. We did not let the country
dialog: know we were going, or leave notice
dialog: of adieu with our neighbors. The
dialog: famous Mr. James Cosgrove and his
dialog: noble wife traveled in a hack-
text: chaise and pair.
scene_heading: INT. COACH - DAY
text: The Countess lays her head on Roderick's shoulder and
text: smiles.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
text: When a man is going to the devil,
dialog: how easy and pleasant a journey it
dialog: is! The thought of the money quite
dialog: put me in a good humor, and my wife,
text: as she lay on my shoulder in the
dialog: post-chaise, going to London, said
dialog: it was the happiest ride she had
dialog: taken since our marriage.
scene_heading: EXT. INN - DUSK
text: The carriage stops and they disembark.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: One night we stayed at Reading.
scene_heading: INT. INN - NIGHT
text: Roderick and his wife at dinner.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: My lady and I agreed that, with the
dialog: money, we would go to France, and
dialog: wait there for better times, and
dialog: that night, over our supper, formed
dialog: a score of plans both for pleasure
dialog: and retrenchment. You would have
dialog: thought it was Darby and Joan
text: together over their supper.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Roderick and his wife making love.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: O woman! Woman! When I recollect
text: Lady Cosgrove's smiles and
dialog: blandishments, how happy she seemed
dialog: to be on that night! What an air of
dialog: innocent confidence appeared in her
dialog: behavior, and what affectionate
dialog: names she called me! I am lost in
dialog: wonder at the depth of her
dialog: hypocrisy. Who can be surprised
dialog: that an unsuspecting person like
dialog: myself should have been a victim to
dialog: such a consummate deceiver?
scene_heading: EXT. GRAY'S INN OFFICE - DAY
text: The coach drives up.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: We were in London at three o'clock,
dialog: an half-an-hour before the time
dialog: appointed.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRCASE - DAY
text: Roderick and the Countess looking for the office.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I easily found out Mr. Tapewell's
dialog: apartment: a gloomy den it was, and
dialog: in an unlucky hour, I entered it.
text: They climb up dirty backstairs, lit by a feeble lamp, and
text: the dim sky of a dismal London afternoon.
text: The Countess seems agitated and faint.
text: When they get to the door, she stops in front of it.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Roderick -- don't go in. I am sure
dialog: there is danger. There's time yet,
dialog: let us go back -- anywhere!
text: The Countess has put herself before the door in a
text: theatrical attitude and takes Roderick's hand.
text: He pushes her away to one side.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Lady Cosgrove, you are an old fool.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Old fool!
text: She jumps at the bell, which is quickly answered by a
text: moldy-looking gentleman in an unpowered wig.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Say Lady Cosgrove is here!
text: She stalks down the passage, muttering: "Old Fool."
scene_heading: INT. MR. TAPEWELL'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Tapewell is in his musty room, surrounded by his
text: parchments and tin boxes.
text: He advances and bows, begs her ladyship to be seated, and
text: points towards a chair for Roderick, which he takes,
text: rather wondering at the lawyer's insolence.
text: The lawyer retreats to a side-door, saying he will be back
text: in a moment.
text: In the next moment, he reenters, bringing with him another
text: layer, six constables in red waist-coats, with bludgeons
text: and pistols, and Lord Brookside.
text: Lady Cosgrove flings herself into the arms of her son,
text: crying and whimpering and calling him her savior, her
text: preserver, her gallant knight.
text: Then, turning to Roderick, she pours out a flood of
text: invective which quite astonishes him.
speaker_heading: COUNTESS
dialog: Oh fool as I am, I have outwitted
dialog: the most crafty and treacherous
dialog: monster under the sun. Yes, I was a
dialog: fool when I married you, and gave up
dialog: other and nobler hearts for your
dialog: sake -- yes, I was a fool when I
dialog: forgot my name and lineage to unite
dialog: myself with a base-born adventurer
dialog: -- a fool to bear, without repining,
dialog: the most monstrous tyranny that ever
dialog: woman suffered; to allow my property
dialog: to be squandered; to see women as
dialog: base and low-born as yourself...
speaker_heading: TAPEWELL
dialog: For heaven's sake, be calm.
text: Tapewell bounds back behind the constables, seeing a
text: threatening look in Roderick's eye.
text: The Countess continues in a strain of incoherent fury,
text: screaming against Roderick, and against his mother, and
dialog: always beginning and ending the sentence with the word
dialog: "fool."
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: You didn't tell all, my lady -- I
dialog: said "old" fool.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: I have no doubt that you said and
dialog: did, sir, everything that a
dialog: blackguard could say or do. This
dialog: lady is now safe under the
dialog: protection of her relations and the
dialog: law, and need fear your infamous
dialog: persecutions no longer.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: But you are not safe, and as sure as
dialog: I am a man of honor, I will have
dialog: your heart's blood.
speaker_heading: TAPEWELL
dialog: Take down his words, constables;
dialog: swear the peace against him.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: I would not sully my sword with the
dialog: blood of such a ruffian. If the
text: scoundrel remains in London another
dialog: day, he will be seized as a common
dialog: swindler.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Where's the man who will seize me?
text: He draws his sword, placing his back to the door.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Let the scoundrel come! You -- you
dialog: cowardly braggart, come first, if
dialog: you have the soul of a man!
text: The Countess and the bailiffs move away.
speaker_heading: TAPEWELL
dialog: We are not going to seize you! My
dialog: dear sir, we don't wish to seize
dialog: you; we will give you a handsome sum
dialog: to leave the country, only leave her
dialog: ladyship in peace.
speaker_heading: BROOKSIDE
dialog: And the country will be rid of such
dialog: a villain.
text: As Brookside says this, he backs into the next room.
text: The lawyer follows him, leaving Roderick alone in the
text: company of the constables who are all armed to the teeth.
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I was no longer the man I was at
dialog: twenty, when I should have charged
text: the ruffians, sword in hand, and
dialog: sent at least one of them to his
dialog: account. I was broken in spirit,
dialog: regularly caught in the toils,
text: utterly baffled and beaten by that
dialog: woman. Was she relenting at the
dialog: door, when she paused and begged me
dialog: to turn back? Had she not a
dialog: lingering love for me still? Her
dialog: conduct showed it, as I came to
dialog: reflect on it. It was my only
dialog: chance now left in the world, so I
dialog: put down my sword upon the lawyers
dialog: desk.
text: Roderick puts his sword down on the lawyer's desk.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Gentlemen, I shall have no violence;
dialog: you may tell Mr. Tapewell I am quite
text: ready to speak with him when he is
dialog: at leisure.
text: Roderick sits down and folds his arms quite peaceably.
scene_heading: EXT. COFFEE HOUSE - NEAR GRAY'S INN - DAY
scene_heading: INT. RODERICK'S ROOM IN COFFEE HOUSE - DAY
speaker_heading: RODERICK (V.O.)
dialog: I was instructed to take a lodging
text: for the night in a coffee house near
text: Gray's Inn, and anxiously expected a
dialog: visit from Mr. Tapewell.
text: Tapewell talking to Roderick.
speaker_heading: TAPEWELL
dialog: I have been authorized by Lady
dialog: Cosgrove and her advisors to pay you
dialog: an annuity of 300 pounds a year,
dialog: specifically on the condition of you
dialog: remaining abroad out of the three
dialog: kingdoms, and to be stopped on the
dialog: instant of your return. I advise
dialog: you to accept it without delay for
dialog: you know, as well as I do, that your
dialog: stay in London will infallibly
dialog: plunge you in gaol, as there are
text: innumerable writs taken out against
dialog: you here and in the west of England,
dialog: and that your credit is so blown
dialog: upon that you could not hope to
dialog: raise a shilling. I will leave you
dialog: the night to consider this proposal,
dialog: but if you refuse, the family will
dialog: proceed against you in London, and
dialog: have you arrested. If you accede, a
dialog: quarter salary will be paid to you
dialog: at any foreign port you should
dialog: prefer.
speaker_heading: RODERICK
dialog: Mr. Tapewell, I do not require a
dialog: night to consider this proposal.
dialog: What other choice has a poor, lonely
dialog: and broken-hearted man? I shall
dialog: take the annuity, and leave the
dialog: country.
scene_heading: MR. TAPEWELL
dialog: I am very glad to hear that you have
dialog: come to this decision, Mr. Cosgrove.
dialog: I think you are very wise.
text: There is a knock at the door and Roderick opens it.
text: Brookside enters with four constables armed with pistols.
text: The dialogue for this scene has to be written.
text: Brookside has gone against the bargain, and has decided to
dialog: have Roderick arrested upon one of the many writs out
dialog: against him for debt.
text: Mr. Tapewell is surprised and complains weakly that
text: Brookside is acting in bad faith.
text: Brookside brushes aside his objections.
text: Roderick is defeated, and meekly sits down in a chair.
text: The following lines are read over Roderick being shackled
text: and led out of the room.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: Mr. James Cosgrove's personal
dialog: narrative finishes here, for the
dialog: hand of death interrupted the
dialog: ingenious author soon after the
dialog: period which this memoir was
dialog: compiled, after he had lived
dialog: nineteen years an inmate of the
dialog: Fleet Prison, where the prison
dialog: records state he died of delirium
dialog: tremens.
scene_heading: EXT. FLEET PRISON - DAY
text: His mother, now very old and hobbled with arthritis,
text: enters the prison, carrying a basket on her arm.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: His faithful old mother joined him
dialog: in his lonely exile, and had a
dialog: bedroom in Fleet Market over the
dialog: way. She would come and stay the
dialog: whole day with him in prison
dialog: working.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - COUNTESS' STUDY
text: Signing a payment draft, the Countess sighs and gazes out
text: of the large window.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: The Countess was never out of love
dialog: with her husband, and, as long as
dialog: she lived, James enjoyed his income
dialog: of 300 pounds per year and was,
dialog: perhaps, as happy in prison, as at
dialog: any period of his existence.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE HACKTON - STUDY - DAY
text: Brookside tearing up the payment draft presented to him by
dialog: his accountant.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: When her ladyship died, her son
text: sternly cut off the annuity,
dialog: devoting the sum to charities,
dialog: which, he said, would make a nobler
dialog: use of it than the scoundrel who had
dialog: enjoyed it hitherto.
scene_heading: INT. FLEET PRISON - DAY
text: Roderick, now grey-haired, blacking boots.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: When the famous character lost his
dialog: income, his spirit entirely failed.
text: He was removed into the pauper's
dialog: ward, where he was known to black
dialog: boots for wealthier prisoners, and
dialog: where he was detected in stealing a
dialog: tobacco box.
scene_heading: INT. FLEET PRISON - DAY
text: Roderick and his mother. Action as per voice over.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: His mother attained a prodigious old
dialog: age, and the inhabitants of the
dialog: place in her time can record, with
dialog: accuracy, the daily disputes which
dialog: used to take place between mother
dialog: and son, until the latter, from
dialog: habits of intoxication, falling into
dialog: a state of almost imbecility, was
text: tended by his tough old parent as a
dialog: baby almost, and would cry if
text: deprived of his necessary glass of
dialog: brandy.
speaker_heading: TITLE CARD
dialog: It was in the reign of George III
dialog: that the above-named personages
dialog: lived and quarreled; good or bad,
dialog: handsome or ugly, rich or poor, they
dialog: are all equal now.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
