dialog: 
speaker_heading: BARTON FINK
dialog: Screenplay
dialog: By
dialog: Ethan Coen &amp; Joel Coen
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: ON BARTON FINK
text: He is a bespectacled man in his thirties, hale but somewhat
text: bookish. He stands, tuxedoed, in the wings of a theater,
text: looking out at the stage, listening intently to end of a
dialog: performance.
text: In the shadows behind him an old stagehand leans against a
text: flat, expressionlessly smoking a cigarette, one hand on a
text: thick rope that hangs from the ceiling.
text: The voices of the performing actors echo in from the offscreen
dialog: stage:
speaker_heading: ACTOR
dialog: I'm blowin' out of here, blowin' for
dialog: good. I'm kissin' it all goodbye,
dialog: these four stinkin' walls, the six
text: flights up, the el that roars by at
text: three A.M. like a castiron wind.
dialog: Kiss 'em goodbye for me, Maury!
dialog: I'll miss 'em – like hell I will!
speaker_heading: ACTRESS
dialog: Dreaming again!
speaker_heading: ACTOR
dialog: Not this time, Lil! I'm awake now,
text: awake for the first time in years.
dialog: Uncle Dave said it: Daylight is a
dialog: dream if you've lived with your eyes
dialog: closed. Well my eyes are open now! I
dialog: see that choir, and I know they're
dialog: dressed in rags! But we're part of
dialog: that choir, both of us – yeah, and
dialog: you, Maury, and Uncle Dave too!
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: The sun's coming up, kid. They'll be
text: hawking the fish down on Fulton
dialog: Street.
speaker_heading: ACTOR
dialog: Let 'em hawk. Let 'em sing their
text: hearts out.
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: That's it, kid. Take that ruined
dialog: choir. Make it sing!
speaker_heading: ACTOR
dialog: So long, Maury.
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: So long.
text: We hear a door open and close, then approaching footsteps. A
text: tall, dark actor in a used tweed suit and carrying a beat-up
text: valise passes in front of Barton: From offscreen stage:
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: We'll hear from that kid. And I don't
dialog: mean a postcard.
text: The actor sets the valise down and then stands waiting int
text: he shadows behind Barton.
text: An older man in work clothes – not wardrobe – passes in front
text: of Barton from the other direction, pauses at the edge of
text: the stage and cups his hands to his mouth.
speaker_heading: OLDER MAN
dialog: FISH! FRESH FISH!
text: As the man walks back off the screen:
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Let's spit on our hands and get to
dialog: work. It's late, Maury.
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: Not any more Lil...
text: Barton mouths the last line in sync with the offscreen actor:
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: ...It's early.
text: With this the stagehand behind Barton furiously pulls the
text: rope hand-over-hand and we hear thunderous applause and shouts
dialog: of "Bravo!"
text: As the stagehand finishes bringing the curtain down, somewhat
text: muting the applause, the backstage actor trots out of frame
text: toward the stage.
text: The stagehand pulls on an adjacent rope, bringing the curtain
text: back up and unmuting the applause.
text: Barton Fink seems dazed. He has been joined by two other
text: men, both dressed in tuxedos, both beaming toward the stage.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S POV
text: Looking across a tenement set at the backs of the cast as
text: the curtain rises on the enthusiastic house. The actors take
text: their bows and the cry of "Author, Author" goes up from the
dialog: crowd.
text: The actors turn to smile at Barton in the wings.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He hesitates, unable to take it all in.
text: He is gently nudged toward the stage by the two tuxedoed
dialog: gentlemen.
text: As he exits toward the stage the applause is deafening.
speaker_heading: TRACKING SHOT
text: Pushing a maitre 'd who looks back over his shoulder as he
text: leads the way through the restaurant.
speaker_heading: MAITRE 'D
dialog: Your table is ready, Monsieur Fink...
dialog: several members of your party have
dialog: already arrived...
speaker_heading: REVERSE
dialog: Pulling Barton
speaker_heading: FINK
dialog: Is Garland Stanford here?
speaker_heading: MAITRE 'D
dialog: He called to say he'd be a few minutes
dialog: late... Ah, here we are...
scene_heading: TRACKING IN
text: Toward a large semi-circular booth. Three guests, two me and
text: a woman in evening wear, are rising and beaming at Barton. A
text: fat middle-aged man, one of the tuxedoed gentlemen we saw
text: backstage, is moving out to let Barton slide in.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Barton, Barton, so glad you could
dialog: make it. You know Richard St.
dialog: Claire...
text: Barton nods and looks at the woman.
speaker_heading: MAN
text: ...and Poppy Carnahan. We're drinking
dialog: champagne, dear boy, in honor of the
dialog: occasion. Have you seen the Herald?
text: Barton looks sullenly at his champagne glass as the fat man
dialog: fills it.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Not yet.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Well, I don't want to embarrass you
dialog: but Caven could hardly contain
dialog: himself. But more important, Richard
dialog: and Poppy here loved the play.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Loved it! What power!
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: Yeah, it was a corker.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Thanks, Richard, but I know for a
dialog: fact the only fish you've ever seen
text: were tacked to a the wall of the
dialog: yacht club.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: Ouch!
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Bravo! Nevertheless, we were all
dialog: devastated.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Weeping! Copius tears! What did the
dialog: Herald say?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: I happen to have it with me.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Please Derek –
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Do read it, do!
speaker_heading: DEREK
dialog: "Bare Ruined Choirs: Triumph of the
dialog: Common Man. The star of the Bare
text: Ruined Choirs was not seen on the
dialog: stage of the Belasco last night –
dialog: though the thespians involved all
dialog: acquitted themselves admirably. The
dialog: find of the evening was the author
dialog: of this drama about simple folk –
text: fish mongers, in fact – whose brute
dialog: struggle for existence cannot quite
dialog: quell their longing for something
dialog: higher. The playwright finds nobility
dialog: in the most squalid corners and poetry
text: in the most callused speech. A tough
dialog: new voice in the American theater
dialog: has arrived, and the owner of that
dialog: voice is named... Barton Fink."
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: They'll be wrapping fish in it in
dialog: the morning so I guess it's not a
dialog: total waste.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Cynic!
speaker_heading: DEREK
dialog: Well we can enjoy your success,
dialog: Barton, even if you can't.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Don't get me wrong – I'm glad it'll
dialog: do well for you, Derek.
speaker_heading: DEREK
dialog: Don't worry about me, dear boy – I
dialog: want you to celebrate.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: All right, but I can't start listening
dialog: to the critics, and I can't kid myself
dialog: about my own work. A writer writes
text: from his gut, and his gut tells him
dialog: what's good and what's... merely
dialog: adequate.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Well I don't pretend to be a critic,
dialog: but Lord, I have a gut, and it tells
dialog: me it was simply marvelous.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: And a charming gut it is.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: You dog!
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (baying)
dialog: Aaa-woooooooo!
text: Barton turns to look for the source of an insistent jingling.
text: We swish pan off him to find a busboy marching through the
text: restaurant displaying a page sign, bell attached, with
text: Barton's name on it.
text: TRACKING IN TOWARD A BAR
text: A distinguished fifty-year-old gentleman in evening clothes
text: is nursing a martini, watching Barton approach.
scene_heading: PULLING BARTON
text: As he draws near.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I thought you were going to join us.
dialog: Jesus, Garland, you left me alone
dialog: with those people.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Don't panic, I'll join you in a
dialog: minute. What's you think of Richard
dialog: and Poppy?
text: Barton scowls
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: The play was marvelous. She wept,
dialog: copiously. Millions of dollars and
dialog: no sense.
text: Garland smiles, then draws Barton close.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: We have to talk a little business.
dialog: I've just been on the phone to Los
dialog: Angeles. Barton, Capitol Pictures
dialog: wants to put you under contract.
dialog: They've offered you a thousand dollars
dialog: a week. I think I can get them to go
dialog: as high as two.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: To do what?
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: What do you do far a living?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm not sure anymore. I guess I try
dialog: to make a difference.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Fair enough. No pressure here, Barton,
dialog: because I respect you, but let me
dialog: point out a couple of things. One,
dialog: here you make a difference to five
dialog: hundred fifty people a night – if
text: the show sells out. Eighty five
dialog: million people go to the pictures
dialog: every week.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: To see pap.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Yes, generally, to see pap. However,
dialog: point number two: A brief tenure in
dialog: Hollywood could support you through
dialog: the writing of any number of plays.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I don't know, Garland; my place is
dialog: here right now. I feel I'm on the
dialog: brink of success-
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: I'd say you're already enjoying some.
text: Barton leans earnestly forward.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No, Garland, don't you see? Not the
dialog: kind of success where the critics
dialog: fawn over you or the producers like
dialog: Derek make a lot of money. No, a
dialog: real success – the success we've
dialog: been dreaming about – the creation
text: of a new, living theater of, about,
dialog: and for the common man! If I ran off
dialog: to Hollywood now I'd be making money,
dialog: going to parties, meeting the big
dialog: shots, sure, but I'd be cutting myself
text: off from the wellspring of that
dialog: success, from the common man.
text: He leans back and chuckles ruefully.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: ...I guess I'm sprouting off again.
dialog: But I am certain of this, Garland:
dialog: I'm capable of more good work. Maybe
dialog: better work than I did in Choirs. It
dialog: just doesn't seem to me that Los
dialog: Angeles is the place to lead the
dialog: life of mind.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Okay Barton, you're the artist, I'm
dialog: just the ten percenter. You decide
dialog: what you want and I'll make it happen.
dialog: I'm only asking that your decision
dialog: be informed by a little realism – if
dialog: I can use that word and Hollywood in
text: the same breath.
text: Barton glumly lights a cigarette and gazes out across the
dialog: floor.
text: Garland studies him.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: ...Look, they love you, kid –
dialog: everybody does. You see Caven's review
dialog: in the Herald?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No, what did it say?
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Take my copy. You're the toast of
dialog: Broadway and you have the opportunity
dialog: to redeem that for a little cash –
dialog: strike that, a lot of cash.
text: Garland looks at Barton for a reaction, but gets none.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: ...The common man'll still be here
dialog: when you get back. What the hell,
dialog: they might even have one or two of
dialog: 'em out in Hollywood.
dialog: Absently:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...That's a rationalization, Garland.
text: Garland smiles gently.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Barton, it was a joke.
text: We hear a distant rumble. It builds slowly and we cut to:
speaker_heading: A GREAT WAVE
text: Crushing against the Pacific shore.
text: The roar of the surf slips away as we dissolve to:
speaker_heading: HOTEL LOBBY
text: A high wide shot from the front door, looking down across
text: wilting potted palms, brass cuspidors turning green, ratty
text: wing chairs; the fading decor is deco-gone-to-seed.
text: Amber light, afternoon turning to evening, slopes in from
text: behind us, washing the derelict lobby with golden highlights.
text: Barton Fink enters frame from beneath the camera and stops
text: in the middle foreground to look across the lobby.
text: We are framed on his back, his coat and hat. The lobby is
text: empty. There is a suspended beat as Barton takes it in.
text: Barton moves toward the front desk.
speaker_heading: THE REVERSE
text: As Barton stops at the empty desk. He hits a small silver
text: bell next to the register. Its ring-out goes on and on without
dialog: losing volume.
text: After a long beat there is a dull scuffle of shoes on stairs.
text: Barton, puzzled, looks around the empty lobby, then down at
text: the floor behind the front desk.
speaker_heading: A TRAP DOOR
text: It swings open and a young man in a faded maroon uniform,
text: holding a shoebrush and a shoe – not one of his own – climbs
text: up from the basement.
text: He closes the trap door, steps up to the desk and sticks his
text: finger out to touch the small silver bell, finally muting
dialog: it.
text: The lobby is now silent again.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Welcome to the Hotel Earle. May I
dialog: help you, sir?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm checking in. Barton Fink.
text: The clerk flips through cards on the desk.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: F-I-N-K. Fink, Barton. That must be
dialog: you, huh?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Must be.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Okay then, everything seems to be in
text: order. Everything seems to be in
dialog: order.
text: He is turning to a register around for Barton to sign.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: ...Are you a tranz or a rez?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Transient or resident?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I don't know... I mean, I'll be here,
dialog: uh, indefinitely.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Rez. That'll be twenty-five fifty a
dialog: week payable in advance. Checkout
dialog: time is twelve sharp, only you can
dialog: forget that on account you're a rez.
dialog: If you need anything, anything at
dialog: all, you dial zero on your personal
dialog: in-room telephone and talk to me. My
dialog: name is Chet.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, I'm going to be working here,
dialog: mostly at night; I'm a writer. Do
dialog: you have room service?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Kitchen closes at eight but I'm the
dialog: night clerk. I can always ring out
dialog: for sandwiches.
text: The clerk is scribbling something on the back of an index
dialog: card.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: ...Though we provide privacy for the
dialog: residential guest, we are also a
dialog: full service hotel including
dialog: complimentary shoe shine. My name is
dialog: Chet.
text: He pushes a room key across the counter on top of the index
dialog: card.
text: Barton looks at the card.
text: On it: "CHET!" Barton looks back up at the clerk. They regard
text: each other for a beat.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: ...Okay
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Huh?
text: The clerk.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Okey-dokey, go ahead.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What –
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Don't you wanna go to your room?!
text: Barton stares at him.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...What number is it?
text: The clerk stares back.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: ...Six-oh-five. I forgot to tell
dialog: you.
text: As Barton stoops to pick up his two small bags:
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: ...Those your only bags?
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: The others are being sent.
text: The clerk leans over the desk to call after him:
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: I'll keep an eye out for them. I'll
dialog: keep my eyes peeled, Mr. Fink.
text: Barton is walking to the elevator.
speaker_heading: ELEVATOR
text: Barton enters and sets down his bags.
text: An aged man with white stubble, wearing a greasy maroon
text: uniform, sits on a stool facing the call panel. He does not
dialog: acknowledge Barton's presence.
text: After a beat:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Six, please.
text: The elevator man gets slowly to his feet. As he pushes the
dialog: door closed:
speaker_heading: ELEVATOR MAN
text: Next stop: Six.
scene_heading: SIXTH-FLOOR HALLWAY
text: Barton walks slowly toward us, examining the numbers on the
dialog: doors.
text: The long, straight hallway is carpeted with an old stained
text: forest green carpet. The wallpaper shows faded yellowing
text: palm trees. Barton sticks his key in the lock of a door
text: midway down the hall.
speaker_heading: HIS ROOM
text: As Barton enters.
text: The room is small and cheaply furnished. There is a lumpy
text: bed with a worn yellow coverlet, an old secretary table, and
text: a wooden luggage stand.
text: As Barton crosses the room we follow to reveal a sink and
text: wash basin, a house telephone on a rickety night stand, and
text: a window with yellowing sheers looking on an air shaft.
text: Barton throws his valise onto the bed where it sinks,
text: jittering. He shrugs off his jacket.
text: Pips of sweat stand out on Barton's brow. The room is hot.
text: He walks across the room, switches on an oscillating fan and
text: struggles to throw open the window. After he strains at it
text: for a moment, it slides open with a great wrenching sound.
text: Barton picks up his Underwood and places it on the secretary
text: table. He gives the machine a casually affectionate pat.
text: Next to the typewriter are a few sheets of house stationary:
text: "THE HOTEL EARLE: A DAY OR A LIFETIME."
text: We pan up to a picture in a cheap wooden frame on the wall
text: above the desk. A bathing beauty sits on the beach under a
text: cobalt blue sky. One hand shields her eyes from the sun as
text: she looks out at a crashing surf.
text: The sound of the surf mixes up.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Looking at the picture
text: TRACKING IN ON THE PICTURE
text: The surf mixes up louder. We hear a gull cry.
text: The sound snaps off with the ring of a telephone.
scene_heading: THE HOUSE PHONE
text: On the nightstand next to the bed. With a groan of bedsprings
text: Barton sits into frame and picks up the telephone.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: How d'ya like your room!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Who is this?
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Chet!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Who?
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Chet! From downstairs!
text: Barton wearily rubs the bridge of his nose.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ...How d'ya like your room!
speaker_heading: A PILLOW
text: As Barton's head drops down into frame against it.
text: He reaches over and turns off the bedside light.
text: He lies back and closes his eyes.
text: A long beat.
text: We hear a faint hum, growing louder.
text: Barton opens his eyes.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: A naked, peeling ceiling. The hum – a mosquito, perhaps –
dialog: stops.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: His eyes move this way and that. After a silent beat, he
text: shuts them again.
text: After another silent beat, we hear – muffled, probably from
text: am adjacent room – a brief, dying laugh. It is sighing and
text: weary, like the end of a laughing fit, almost a sob.
text: Silence again.
text: We hear the rising mosquito hum.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
scene_heading: EXECUTIVE OFFICE
text: Barton Fink is ushered into a large, light office by an
text: obsequious middle- aged man in a sagging suit.
text: There are mosquito bites on Barton's face.
speaker_heading: REVERSE
text: From behind a huge white desk, a burly man in an expensive
text: suit gets to his feet and strides across the room.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Is that him?! Barton Fink?! Lemme
dialog: put my arms around this guy!
text: He bear-hugs Barton.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: ...How the hell are ya? Good trip?
text: He separates without waiting for an answer.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: My name is Jack Lipnik. I run this
dialog: dump. You know that – you read the
dialog: papers.
text: Lipnik is lumbering back to his desk.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Lou treating you all right? Got
dialog: everything you need? What the hell's
dialog: the matter with your face? What the
dialog: hell's the matter with his face,
dialog: Lou?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: It's not as bad as it looks; just a
dialog: mosquito in my room –
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Place okay?
dialog: To Lou:
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...Where did we put him?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm at the Earle.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Never heard of it. Let's move him to
dialog: the Grand, or the Wilshire, or hell,
dialog: he can stay at my place.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Thanks, but I wanted a place that
dialog: was less...
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Less Hollywood? Sure, say it, it's
dialog: not a dirty word. Sat whatever the
dialog: hell you want. The writer is king
dialog: here at Capitol Pictures. You don't
dialog: believe me, take a look at your
dialog: paycheck at the end of every week –
dialog: that's what we think of the writer.
dialog: (to Lou)
dialog: ...so what kind of pictures does he
dialog: like?
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Mr. Fink hasn't given a preference,
dialog: Mr. Lipnik.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: How's about it, Bart?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: To be honest, I don't go to the
dialog: pictures much, Mr. Lipnik –
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: That's okay, that's okay, that's
dialog: okay – that's just fine. You probably
dialog: just walked in here thinking that
dialog: was going to be a handicap, thinking
dialog: we wanted people who knew something
dialog: about the medium, maybe even thinking
dialog: there was all kind of technical mumbo-
dialog: jumbo to learn. You were dead wrong.
dialog: We're only interested in one thing:
dialog: Can you tell a story, Bart? Can you
dialog: make us laugh, can you make us cry,
dialog: can you make us wanna break out in
dialog: joyous song? Is that more than one
dialog: thing? Okay. The point is, I run
dialog: this dump and I don't know the
dialog: technical mumbo-jumbo. Why do I run
dialog: it? I've got horse-sense, goddamnit.
dialog: Showmanship. And also, and I hope
dialog: Lou told you this, I bigger and meaner
dialog: than any other kike in this town.
dialog: Did you tell him that, Lou? And I
dialog: don't mean my dick's bigger than
dialog: yours, it's not a sexual thing –
dialog: although, you're the writer, you
dialog: would know more about that. Coffee?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Yes, thank you.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Lou.
text: Lou immediately rises and leaves. Lipnik's tone becomes
dialog: confidential:
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...He used to have shares in the
dialog: company. An ownership interest. Got
text: bought out in the twenties – muscled
dialog: out according to some. Hell, according
dialog: to me. So we keep him around, he's
dialog: got a family. Poor schmuck. He's
dialog: sensitive, don't mention the old
dialog: days. Oh hell, say whatever you want.
dialog: Look, barring a preference, Bart,
dialog: we're gonna put you to work on a
dialog: wrestling picture. Wallace Beery. I
dialog: say this because they tell me you
dialog: know the poetry of the street. That
dialog: would rule out westerns, pirate
dialog: pictures, screwball, Bible, Roman...
text: He rises and starts pacing.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: But look, I'm not one of these guys
dialog: thinks poetic has gotta be fruity.
dialog: We're together on that, aren't we? I
dialog: mean I'm from New York myself – well,
dialog: Minsk if you wanna go way back, which
dialog: we won't if you don't mind and I
dialog: ain't askin'. Now people're gonna
dialog: tell you, wrestling. Wallace Beery,
dialog: it's a B picture. You tell them,
dialog: bullshit. We don't make B pictures
dialog: here at Capitol. Let's put a stop
dialog: to that rumor right now.
text: Lou enters with coffee.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...Thanks Lou. Join us. Join us.
dialog: Talking about the Wallace Beery
dialog: picture.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Excellent picture.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: We got a treatment on it yet?
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: No, not yet Jack. We just bought the
text: story. Saturday Evening Post.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Okay, the hell with the story. Wallace
dialog: Beery is a wrestler. I wanna know
dialog: his hopes, his dreams. Naturally,
dialog: he'll have to get mixed up with a
dialog: bad element. And a romantic interest.
dialog: You know the drill. Romantic
text: interest, or else a young kid. An
dialog: orphan. What do you think, Lou?
dialog: Wally a little too old for a romantic
dialog: interest? Look at me, a writer in
dialog: the room and I'm askin' Lou what the
dialog: goddamn story should be!
text: After a robust laugh, he beams at Barton.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...Well Bart, which is it? Orphan?
dialog: Dame?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Both maybe?
text: There is a disappointed silence. Lipnik looks at Lou. Lou
text: clears his throat.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: ...Maybe we should do a treatment.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Ah, hell, let Bart take a crack at
dialog: it. He'll get into the swing of
dialog: things or I don't know writers. Let's
dialog: make it a dame, Bart, keep it simple.
dialog: We don't gotta tackle the world our
dialog: first time out. The important thing
dialog: is we all have that Barton Fink
dialog: feeling, but since you're Barton
dialog: Fink I'm assuming you have it in
dialog: spades. Seriously Bart, I like you.
dialog: We're off to a good start. Dammit,
dialog: if all our writers were like you I
dialog: wouldn't have to get so goddamn
dialog: involved. I'd like to see something
dialog: by the end of the week.
text: Lou is getting to his feet and signaling for Barton to do
dialog: likewise.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...Heard about your show, by the
dialog: way. My man in New York saw it. Tells
dialog: me it was pretty damn powerful. Pretty
dialog: damn moving. A little fruity, he
dialog: said, but I guess you know what you're
dialog: doing. Thank you for your heart. We
dialog: need more heart in pictures. We're
dialog: all expecting great things.
speaker_heading: TRACKING SHOT
text: We are in the sixth-floor hallway of the Earle, late at night.
text: A pair of shoes sits before each door. Faintly, from one of
text: the rooms, we can hear the clack. clack. clack. of a
text: typewriter.
text: It grows louder as we track forward.
scene_heading: EXTREME CLOSE SHOT – TYPEWRITER
text: Close on the typing so that we see only each letter as it is
text: typed, without context.
text: One by one the letters clack on: a-u-d-i-b-l-e. After a short
text: beat, a period strikes.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Elbows on his desk, he looks down at what he has just written.
text: He rolls the paper up a few lines, looks some more.
speaker_heading: THE PAGE
dialog: It says:
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
text: A TENEMENT BUILDING
text: On Manhattan's Lower East Side. Early morning traffic is
text: audible.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: After a beat he rolls the sheet back into place.
scene_heading: EXTREME CLOSE SHOT
text: The letter-strike area. It is lined up to the last period,
text: which is struck over by a comma. The words "as is" are typed
dialog: in and we cut back to –
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: – as he continues typing. He stops after several more
text: characters and looks.
dialog: Silence.
text: Breaking the silence, muffled laughter from an adjacent room.
text: A man's laughter. It is weary, solitary, mirthless.
text: Barton looks up at the wall directly in front of him.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The picture of the girl on the beach.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Staring, as the end-of-the-tether laughing continues. Barton
text: looks back down at his typewriter as if to resume work, but
text: the sound is too insistent to ignore.
speaker_heading: WIDE SHOT
text: The room, Barton sitting at his desk, staring at the wall.
text: The laughter.
text: Barton pushes his chair back, goes to the door, opens it and
text: looks out.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The empty hallway, a pair of shoes before each door. At the
text: end of the hall a dim red bulb burns over the door to the
text: staircase, punctuating the sick yellow glow of the line of
text: wall sconces.
text: The laughter, though still faint, is more resonant in the
text: empty hall.
dialog: Perhaps its quality has changed, or perhaps simply because
text: it is so insistent, the laughter now might be taken for
text: weeping.
text: Barton pauses, trying to interpret the sound. He slowly
text: withdraws into his room.
speaker_heading: HIS ROOM
text: Barton looks down at his typewriter for a beat. The
text: laughter/weeping continues.
text: He walks over to his bed, sits down and picks up the house
dialog: phone.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Hello... Chet? This is Barton Fink
dialog: in room 605. Yes, there's uh, there's
text: someone in the room next door to
dialog: mine, 604, and he's uh... He's uh...
dialog: making a lot of... noise.
text: After a beat:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Thank you.
text: He cradles the phone. The laughter continues for a moment or
text: two, then abruptly stops with the muffled sound of the
text: telephone ringing next door.
text: Barton looks at the wall.
text: The muffled sound of a man talking.
text: The sound of the earpiece being pronged.
text: Muffled footsteps next door.
text: The sound of the neighbor's door opening and shutting.
text: Footsteps approaching the hall.
text: A hard, present knock at Barton's door.
text: Barton hesitates for a beat, then rises to go get the door.
speaker_heading: ON THE DOOR
text: As Barton opens it. Standing in the hall is a large man – a
text: very large man – in short sleeves, suspenders, and loosened
text: tie. His face is slightly flushed, with the beginnings of
dialog: sweat.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Did you... Somebody just complained...
dialog: Hastily:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No, I didn't – I mean, I did call
dialog: down, not to complain exactly, I was
dialog: just concerned that you might – not
dialog: that it's my business, but that you
dialog: might be in some kind of... distress.
dialog: You see, I was trying to work, and
dialog: it's, well, it was difficult –
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Yeah. I'm damn sorry, if I bothered
dialog: you. The damn walls here, well, I
dialog: just apologize like hell...
text: He sticks his hand out.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: ...My name's Charlie Meadows. I guess
dialog: we're neighbors...
text: Without reaching for the hand.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Barton Fink.
text: Unfazed, Charlie Meadows unpockets a flask.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Neighbor, I'd feel better about the
dialog: damned inconvenience if you'd let me
dialog: buy you a drink.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: That's all right, really, thank you.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: All right, hell, you trying to work
dialog: and me carrying on in there. Look,
dialog: the liquor's good, wuddya say?
text: As he enters:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ... You got a glass? It's the least
dialog: I can do.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Okay... a quick one, sure...
text: He gets two glasses from the wash basin. Charlie sits down
text: on the edge of the bed and uncorks his flask.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Yeah, just a nip. I feel like hell,
text: all the carryings-on next door.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: That's okay, I assure you. It's just
dialog: that I was trying to work –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: What kind of work do you do, Barton,
dialog: if you don't mind my asking?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, I'm a writer, actually.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: You don't say. That's a tough racket.
dialog: My hat's off to anyone who can make
dialog: a go of it. Damned interesting work,
dialog: I'd imagine.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Can be. Not easy, but –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Damned difficult, I'd imagine.
text: As he hands Charlie a glass:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: And what's your line, Mr. Meadows?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hell no! Call me Charlie. Well Barton,
dialog: you might say I sell peace of mind.
dialog: Insurance is my game – door-to-door,
dialog: human contact, still the only way to
dialog: move merchandise.
text: He fills a glass with whiskey and swaps it for the empty
dialog: glass.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...In spite of what you might think
dialog: from tonight, I'm pretty good at it.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Doesn't surprise me at all.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hell yes. Because I believe in it.
dialog: Fire, theft, and casualty are not
dialog: things that only happen to other
dialog: people – that's what I tell 'em.
dialog: Writing doesn't work out, you might
dialog: want to look into it. Providing for
dialog: basic human need – a fella could do
dialog: worse.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Thanks, I'll keep it in mind.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: What kind of scribbler are you –
dialog: newspaperman did you say?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No, I'm actually writing for the
dialog: pictures now –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Pictures! Jesus!
text: He guffaws.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...I'm sorry, brother, I was just
dialog: sitting here thinking I was talking
text: to some ambitious youngster, eager
dialog: to make good. Hell, you've got it
dialog: made! Writing for pictures! Beating
dialog: out that competition! And me being
dialog: patronizing!
text: He gestures toward his face:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Is the egg showing or what?!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: That's okay; actually I am just
dialog: starting out in the movies – though
dialog: I was pretty well established in New
dialog: York, some renown there,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Oh, it's an exciting time then. I'm
dialog: not the best-read mug on the planet,
dialog: so I guess it's no surprise I didn't
dialog: recognize your name. Jesus, I feel
text: like a heel.
text: For the first time Barton smiles.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: That's okay, Charlie. I'm a
dialog: playwright. My shows've only played
dialog: New York. Last one got a hell of a
dialog: write-up in the Herald. I guess that's
dialog: why they wanted me here.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hell, why not? Everyone wants quality.
dialog: What kind of venue, that is to say,
dialog: thematically, uh...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What do I write about?
text: Charlie laughs.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Caught me trying to be fancy! Yeah,
dialog: that's it, Bart.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, that's a good question. Strange
dialog: as it may seem, Charlie, I guess I
dialog: write about people like you. The
dialog: average working stiff. The common
dialog: man.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Well ain't that a kick in the head!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah, I guess it is. But in a way,
dialog: that's exactly the point. There's a
dialog: few people in New York – hopefully
dialog: our numbers are growing – who feel
dialog: we have an opportunity now to forge
dialog: something real out of everyday
dialog: experience, create a theater for the
dialog: masses that's based on a few simple
dialog: truths – not on some shopworn
dialog: abstractions about drama that doesn't
dialog: hold true today, if they ever did...
text: He gazes at Charlie.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...I don't guess this means much to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hell, I could tell you some stories–
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: And that's the point, that we all
dialog: have stories. The hopes and dreams
dialog: of the common man are as noble as
dialog: those of any king. It's the stuff of
dialog: life – why shouldn't it be the stuff
dialog: of theater? Goddamnit, why should
dialog: that be a hard pill to swallow? Don't
dialog: call it new theater, Charlie; call
dialog: it real theater. Call it our theater.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I can see you feel pretty strongly
dialog: about it.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, I don't mean to get up on my
dialog: high horse, but why shouldn't we
dialog: look at ourselves up there? Who
dialog: cares about the Fifth Earl of Bastrop
dialog: and Lady Higginbottom and – and –
dialog: and who killed Nigel Grinch-Gibbons?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
text: I can feel my butt getting sore
dialog: already.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Exactly, Charlie! You understand
dialog: what I'm saying – a lot more than
dialog: some of these literary types. Because
dialog: you're a real man!
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: And I could tell you some stories –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Sure you could! And yet many writers
dialog: do everything in their power to
dialog: insulate themselves from the common
dialog: man – from where they live, from
dialog: where they trade, from where they
text: fight and love and converse and –
dialog: and – and... so naturally their work
text: suffers, and regresses into empty
dialog: formalism and – well, I'm spouting
dialog: off again, but to put it in your
text: language, the theater becomes as
text: phony as a three dollar bill.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Yeah, I guess that's tragedy right
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Frequently played, seldom remarked.
text: Charlie laughs.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Whatever that means.
text: Barton smiles with him.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You're all right, Charlie. I'm glad
dialog: you stopped by. I'm sorry if – well
dialog: I know I sometimes run on.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hell no! Jesus, I'm the kind of guy,
dialog: I'll let you know if I'm bored. I
dialog: find it all pretty damned interesting.
dialog: I'm the kind schmoe who's generally
text: interested in the other guy's point
dialog: of view.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, we've got something in common
dialog: then.
text: Charlie is getting to his feet and walking to the door.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Well Christ, if there's any way I
dialog: can contribute, or help, or whatever–
text: Barton chuckles and extends his hand.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Sure, sure Charlie, you can help by
dialog: just being yourself.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Well, I can tell you some stories –
text: He pumps Barton's hand, then turns and pauses in the doorway.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...And look, I'm sorry as hell about
text: the interruption. Too much revelry
dialog: late at night, you forget there are
dialog: other people in the world.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: See you, Charlie.
text: Charlie closes the door and is gone.
text: Barton goes back to his desk and sits.
text: Muffled, we can hear the door of the adjacent room opening
dialog: and closing.
text: Barton looks at the wall.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
dialog: The bathing beauty.
text: From offscreen we hear a sticky, adhesive-giving-way sound.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He looks around to the opposite –
text: bed – wall.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The wallpaper is lightly sheened with moisture from the heat.
text: One swath of wallpaper is just finishing sagging away from
text: the wall. About three feet of the wall, where it meets the
text: ceiling, is exposed.
text: The strip of wallpaper, its glue apparently melted, sags and
text: nods above the bed. It glistens yellow, like a fleshy tropical
dialog: flower.
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: He goes over to the bed and steps up onto it. He smooths the
text: wallpaper back up against the wall.
text: He looks at his hand.
speaker_heading: HIS HAND
text: Sticky with tacky yellow wall sweat.
text: He wipes it onto his shirt.
text: We hear a faint mosquito hum.
text: Barton looks around.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
text: A TYPEWRITER Whirring at high speed. The keys strike too
text: quickly for us to make out the words.
scene_heading: SLOW TRACK IN
text: On Barton, sitting on a couch in an office anteroom, staring
text: blankly. Distant phones ring. Barton's eyes are tired and
text: bloodshot.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: A gargoyle secretary sits typing a document.
text: The office door opens in the background and a short middle-
text: aged man in a dark suit emerges.
dialog: To his secretary:
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
dialog: I'm eating on the lot today –
text: He notices Barton.
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
dialog: ...Who's he?
text: The secretary looks over from her typing to consult a slip
text: of paper on her desk.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Barton Fink, Mr. Geisler.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: More please.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm a writer, Mr. Geisler. Ted Okum
dialog: said I should drop by morning to see
dialog: you about the –
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Ever act?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Huh? No, I'm –
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: We need Indians for a Norman Steele
dialog: western.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm a writer. Ted O –
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Think about it, Fink. Writers come
dialog: and go; we always need Indians.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm a writer. Ted Okum said you're
dialog: producing this Wallace Beery picture
dialog: I'm working on.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: What!? Ted Okum doesn't know shit.
dialog: They've assigned me enough pictures
dialog: for a goddamn year. What Ted Okum
dialog: doesn't know you could almost squeeze
text: into the Hollywood Bowl.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Then who should I talk to?
text: Geisler gives a hostile stare. Without looking at her, he
dialog: addresses the secretary:
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Get me Lou Breeze.
text: He perches on the edge of the desk, an open hand out toward
text: the secretary, as he glares wordlessly at Barton.
dialog: After a moment:
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Is he in for Mr. Geisler?
text: She puts the phone in Geisler's hand.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Lou? How's Lipnik's ass smell this
dialog: morning?... Yeah?... Yeah?... Okay,
dialog: the reason I'm calling, I got a writer
dialog: here, Fink, all screwy. Says I'm
dialog: producing that Wallace Beery wrestling
dialog: picture – what'm I, the goddamn
dialog: janitor around here?... Yeah, well
dialog: who'd you get that from?... Yeah,
dialog: well tell Lipnik he can kiss my
dialog: dimpled ass... Shit! No, alright...
dialog: No, no, all right.
text: Without looking he reaches the phone back. The secretary
text: takes it and cradles it.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: ...Okay kid, let's chow.
speaker_heading: COMMISSARY
text: Barton and Geisler sit eating in a semicircular booth. Geisler
text: speaks through a mouthful of food:
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Don't worry about it. It's just a B
dialog: picture. I bring it in on budget,
dialog: they'll book it without even screening
dialog: it. Life is too short.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: But Lipnik said he wanted to look at
text: the script, see something by the end
dialog: of the week.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Sure he did. And he forgot about it
dialog: before your ass left his sofa.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Okay. I'm just having trouble getting
dialog: started. It's funny, I'm blocked up.
dialog: I feel like I need some kind of
dialog: indication of... what's expected –
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Wallace Beery. Wrestling picture.
dialog: What do you need, a road map?
text: Geisler chews on his cottage cheese and stares at Barton.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: ...Look, you're confused? You need
dialog: guidance? Talk to another writer.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Who?
text: Geisler rises and throws his napkin onto his plate.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Jesus, throw a rock in here, you'll
dialog: hit one. And do me a favor, Fink:
dialog: Throw it hard.
scene_heading: COMMISSARY MEN'S ROOM
text: Barton stands at a urinal.
text: He stares at the wall in front of him as he pees. After a
text: moment, he cocks his head, listening.
text: We hear a throat clearing, as if by a tenor preparing for a
text: difficult passage. It is followed by the gurgling ruch of
dialog: vomit.
text: Barton buttons his pants and turns to face the stalls.
text: There is more businesslike throat clearing.
text: Barton stoops.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: We boom down to show the blue serge pants and well-polished
text: shoes of the stall's kneeling occupant.
text: A white handkerchief has been spread on the floor to protect
text: the trouser knees.
text: The toilet flushes. The man rises, picks up his handkerchief
text: up off the floor and gives it a smart flap.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He quickly straightens and goes to the sink. He starts washing
text: his hands. We hear the stall door being unlatched.
text: Barton glances over his shoulder.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The stall door opening.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Quickly, self-consciously, he looks back down at his hands.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: His hands writhing under the running water. We hear footsteps
text: approaching.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Forcing himself to look at his hands. We hear the man reach
text: the adjacent sink and turn on the tap.
text: Barton can't help glancing up.
speaker_heading: THE MAN
text: A dapper little man in a neat blue serge suit. He has warm
text: brown eyes, a patrician nose, and a salt-and-pepper mustache.
text: He smiles pleasantly at Barton.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He gives a nervous smile – more like a tic – and looks back
text: down at his hands. We hear the man gargling water and spitting
text: into the sink.
text: After a moment, Barton looks up again.
speaker_heading: THE MAN
text: Reacting to barton's look as he washes his hands. This time,
text: a curt nod accompanies his pleasant smile.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Looks back down, then up again.
speaker_heading: THE MAN
text: Extends a dripping hand.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Bill Mayhew. Sorry about the odor.
text: His speech is softly accented, from the South.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Barton Fink.
text: They shake, then return to their ablutions.
text: We hold on Barton as we hear Mayhew's faucet being turned
text: off and his foot-steps receding. For some reason, Barton's
text: eyes are widening.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Jesus. W.P.!
text: The dapper little man stops and turns.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: I beg your pardon?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: W.P. Mayhew? The writer?
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Just Bill, please.
text: Barton stands with his back to the sink, facing the little
text: man, his hands dripping onto the floor. There is a short
text: pause. Barton is strangely agitated, his voice halting but
dialog: urgent.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Bill!...
text: Mayhew cocks his head with a politely patient smile. Finally
dialog: Barton brings out:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...You're the finest novelist of our
dialog: time.
text: Mayhew leans against a stall.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Why thank you, son, how kind. Bein'
text: occupied here in the worship of
dialog: Mammon, I haven't had the chance yet
dialog: to see your play –
text: He smiles at Barton's surprise.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: ...Yes, Mistuh Fink, some of the
dialog: news reaches us in Hollywood.
text: He is taking out a flask and unscrewing its lid.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Sir, I'm flattered that you even
dialog: recognize my name. My God, I had no
dialog: idea you were in Hollywood.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: All of us undomesticated writers
dialog: eventually make their way out here
dialog: to the Great Salt Lick. Mebbe that's
dialog: why I allus have such a powerful
dialog: thrust.
text: He clears his throat, takes a swig from the flask, and waves
dialog: it at Barton.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: ...A little social lubricant, Mistuh
dialog: Fink?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: It's still a little early for me.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: So be it.
text: He knocks back some more.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Bill, if I'm imposing you should
dialog: say so, I know you're very busy – I
dialog: just, uh... I just wonder if I could
dialog: ask you a favor... That is to say,
dialog: uh... have you ever written a
dialog: wrestling picture?
text: Mayhew eyes him appraisingly, and at length clears his throat.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: ...You are drippin', suh.
text: Barton looks down at his hands, then pulls a rough brown
text: paper towel from a dispenser.
dialog: Mayhew sighs:
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: ...Mistuh Fink, they have not invented
text: a genre of picture that Bill Mayhew
dialog: has not, at one time or othuh, been
dialog: invited to essay. I have taken my
text: stabs at the wrastlin' form, as I
dialog: have stabbed at so many others, and
dialog: with as little success. I gather
dialog: that you are a fresh-man here, eager
dialog: for an upperclassman's council.
dialog: However, just at the moment...
text: He waves his flask.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: ...I have drinkin' to do. Why don't
dialog: you stop at my bungalow, which is
dialog: numbah fifteen, later on this
dialog: afternoon...
text: He turns to leave.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: ...and we will discuss wrastlin'
dialog: scenarios and other things lit'rary.
speaker_heading: THE NUMBER "15"
text: We are close on brass numerals tacked up on a white door.
text: Muted, from inside, we hear Mayhew's voice – enraged,
text: bellowing. We hear things breaking. Softer, we hear a woman's
text: voice, its tone placating.
text: REVERSE TRACKING SLOWLY IN
text: On Barton, standing in front of the door.
text: The noise abates for a moment. We hear the woman's voice
dialog: again.
text: Barton hesitates, listening; he thinks, decides, knocks.
text: With this the woman's voice stops, and Mayhew starts wailing
dialog: again.
text: The door cracks open.
text: The woman looks as if she has been crying.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: ...Can I help you?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm sorry, I... My name is Fink...
dialog: Uh, Bill asked me to drop by this
dialog: afternoon. Is he in?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
text: Mr. Mayhew is indisposed at the
dialog: moment–
text: From inside, we hear Mayhew's wail.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
text: HONEY!! WHERE'S M'HONEY!!
text: The woman glances uncomfortably over her shoulder and steps
text: outside, closing the door behind her.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Mr. Fink, I'm Audrey Taylor, Mr.
dialog: Mayhew's personal secretary. I know
dialog: this all must sound horrid. I really
dialog: do apologize...
text: Through the door Mayhew is still wailing piteously.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Is, uh... Is he okay?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: He will be... When he can't write,
text: he drinks.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: WHERE ARE YOU, DAMMIT! WHERE'S
dialog: M'HONEY!!
text: She brushes a wisp of hair out of her eyes.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: I am sorry, it's so embarassing.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: How about you? Will you be alright?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: I'll be fine... Are you a writer, Mr
dialog: Fink?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yes I am. I'm working on a wres –
dialog: please call me Barton.
text: Audrey reaches out and touches Barton's hand.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: I'll tell Bill you dropped by. I'm
dialog: sure he'll want to reschedule your
dialog: appointment.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Perhaps you and I could get together
dialog: at some point also. –I'm sorry if
dialog: that sounds abrupt. I just... I don't
dialog: know anyone here in this town.
text: Audrey smiles at him.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Perhaps the three of us, Mr. Fink.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Please, Barton.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Barton. You see, Barton, I'm not
dialog: just Bill's secretary – Bill and I
dialog: are... I love. We-
speaker_heading: MAYHEW'S VOICE
text: M'HONEY!! WHERE'S M'HONEY!!
text: Audrey glances back as we hear the sound of shattering dishes
text: and heavy footsteps.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I see.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: ...I know this must look... funny.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No, no –
dialog: Hurriedly:
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: We need each other. We give each
dialog: other... the things we need –
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: M'HONEY!!... bastard-ass sons of
dialog: bitches... the water's lappin' up...
dialog: M'HONEY!!
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr. Fink. Please don't
dialog: judge us. Please...
text: Flustered, she backs away and closes the door.
text: CLOSE ON A SMALL WRAPPED PACKAGE
text: Hand-printed on the package is the message:
dialog: "Hope these will turn the trick, Mr. Fink. – Chet!"
text: The wrapping is torn away and the small box is opened.
text: Two thumbtacks are taken out.
scene_heading: BARTON'S HOTEL ROOM
text: Late at night. The swath of wallpaper behind the bed has
text: sagged away from the wall again, and has been joined by the
text: swath next to it.
text: Barton enters frame and steps up onto the bed.
text: He smooths up the first swath and pushes in a thumbtack near
dialog: the top.
scene_heading: EXTREME CLOSE SHOT
text: On the tack. As Barton applies pressure to push it in, tacky
text: yellow goo oozes out of the puncture hole and beads around
dialog: the tack.
speaker_heading: ON BARTON
text: Smoothing up the second swath.
text: As he pushes in the second tack he pauses, listening.
text: Muffled, through the wall, we can hear a woman moaning.
text: After a motionless beat, Barton eases his ear against the
dialog: wall.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON BARTON
text: As his ear meets the wall.
text: The woman's moaning continues. We hear the creaking of
text: bedsprings and her partner, incongruously giggling.
text: Barton grimaces, gets down off the bed and crosses to the
text: secretary, where he sits. He stares at the paper in the
dialog: carriage.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The blank part of the page around the key-strike area, under
text: the metal prongs that hold the paper down.
text: We begin to hear moaning again.
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: Still looking; sweating.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Tracking in on the paper, losing the prongs from frame so
text: that we are looking at the pure unblemished white of the
dialog: page.
text: The moaning is cut short by two sharp knocks.
speaker_heading: THE DOOR
text: As it swings open. Charlie Meadows leans in, smiling.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Howdy, neighbor.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Charlie. How are you.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Jesus, I hope I'm not interrupting
dialog: you again. I heard you walking around
dialog: in here. Figured I'd drop by.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah, come in Charlie. Hadn't really
dialog: gotten started yet – what happened
dialog: to your ear?
text: – for Charle's left ear is plugged with cotton wadding. As
dialog: he enters:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Oh, yeah. An ear infection, chronic
text: thing. Goes away for a while, but
dialog: it always comes back. Gotta put cotton
text: in it to staunch the flow of pus.
dialog: Don't worry, it's not contagious.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Seen a doctor?
text: Charlie gives a dismissive wave.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Ah, doctors. What's he gonna tell
dialog: me? Can't trade my head in for a
dialog: new one.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No, I guess you're stuck with the
dialog: one you've got. Have a seat.
text: Charlie perches on the corner of the bed.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Thanks, I'd invite you over to my
dialog: place, but it's a goddamn mess. You
dialog: married, Bart?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Nope.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I myself have yet to be lassoed.
text: He takes his flask out.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Got a sweetheart?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No... I guess it's something about
dialog: my work. I get so worked up over it,
dialog: I don't know; I don't really have a
dialog: lot of attention left over, so it
dialog: would be a little unfair...
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Yeah, the ladies do ask for attention.
dialog: In my experience, they pretend to
dialog: give it, but it's generally a smoke-
dialog: screen for demanding it back – with
dialog: interest. How about family, Bart?
dialog: How're you fixed in that department?
text: Barton smiles.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: My folks live in Brooklyn, with my
dialog: uncle.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Mine have passed on. It's just the
dialog: three of us now...
text: He taps himself on the head, chuckling.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...What's the expression – me myself
dialog: and I.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Sure, that's tough, but in a sense,
dialog: we're all alone in this world aren't
dialog: we Charlie? I'm often surrounded by
dialog: family and friends, but...
text: He shrugs.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Mm... You're no stranger to
dialog: loneliness, then. I guess I got no
dialog: beef; especially where the dames are
dialog: concerned. In my line of work I get
dialog: opportunities galore – always on the
dialog: wing, you know what I'm saying. I
dialog: could tell stories to curl your hair
dialog: – but it looks like you've already
dialog: heard 'em!
text: He laughs at his reference to Barton's curly hair, and pulls
text: a dog-eared photograph from his wallet. As he hands it to
dialog: Barton:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...That's me in Kansas City, plying
dialog: my trade.
speaker_heading: THE PHOTO
text: Charlie smiles and waves with one foot up on the running
text: board of a 1939 roadster. A battered leather briefcase dangles
text: from one hand.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...It was taken by one of my policy
dialog: holders. They're more than just
dialog: customers to me, Barton. They really
dialog: appreciate what I have to offer them.
dialog: Ya see, her hubby was out of town at
dialog: the time –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You know, in a way, I envy you
dialog: Charlie. Your daily routine – you
dialog: know what's expected. You know the
dialog: drill. My job is to plumb the depths,
dialog: so to speak, dredge something up
dialog: from inside, something honest. There's
dialog: no road map for that territory...
text: He looks from Charlie to the Underwood.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...and exploring it can be painful.
dialog: The kind of pain most people don't
dialog: know anything about.
text: He looks back at Charlie.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...This must be boring you.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Not at all. It's damned interesting.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah...
text: He gives a sad chuckle.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Probably sounds a little grand
dialog: coming from someone who's writing a
dialog: wrestling picture for Wallace Beery.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Beery! You got no beef there! He's
dialog: good. Hell of an actor – though,
dialog: for my money, you can't beat Jack
dialog: Oakie. A stitch, Oakie. Funny stuff,
dialog: funny stuff. But don't get me wrong
dialog: – Beery, a wrestling picture, that
dialog: could be a pip. Wrestled some myself
dialog: back in school. I guess you know the
dialog: basic moves.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Nope, never watched any. I'm not
dialog: that interested in the act itself –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Okay, but hell, you should know what
dialog: it is. I can show you in about thirty
dialog: seconds.
text: He is getting down on his hands and knees.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...You're a little out of your weight
dialog: class, but just for purposes of
dialog: demonstration –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: That's all right, really –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Not a bit of it, compadre! Easiest
dialog: thing in the world! You just get
dialog: down on your knees to my left, slap
dialog: your right hand here...
text: He indicated his own right bicep.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...and your left hand here.
text: He indicated his left bicep.
text: Barton hesitates.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...You can do it, champ!
text: Barton complies.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...All right now, when I say "Ready...
dialog: wrestle!" you try and pin me, and I
dialog: try and pin you. That's the whole
dialog: game. Got it?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Yeah, okay.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Ready... wrestle!
text: With one clean move Charlie flips Barton onto his back, his
text: head and shoulders hitting with a thump. Charlie pins Barton's
text: shoulders with his own upper body.
text: But before the move even seems completed Charlie is standing
text: again, offering his hand down to Barton.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Damn, there I go again. We're gonna
dialog: wake the downstairs neighbors. I
dialog: didn't hurt ya, did I?
text: Barton seems dazed, but not put out.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: It's okay, it's okay.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Well, that's all that wrestling is.
text: Except usually there's more grunting
text: and squirming before the pin. Well,
dialog: it's your first time. And you're out
dialog: of your weight class.
text: Barton has propped himself up and is painfully massaging the
text: back of his head. This registers on Charlie.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Jesus, I did hurt you!
text: He clomps hurriedly away.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...I'm just a big, clumsy lug. I
dialog: sure do apologize.
text: We hear water running, and Charlie reenters with a wet towel.
text: Barton accepts the towel and presses it to his head.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...You sure you're okay?
text: Barton gets to his feet.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm fine, Charlie. Really I am.
dialog: Actually, it's been helpful, but I
dialog: guess I should get back to work.
text: Charlie looks at him with some concern, then turns and heads
dialog: for the door.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Well, it wasn't fair of me to do
dialog: that. I'm pretty well endowed
dialog: physically.
text: He opens the door.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Don't feel bad, though. I wouldn't
dialog: be much of a match for you at mental
dialog: gymnastics. Gimme a holler if you
dialog: need anything.
text: The door closes.
text: Barton crosses to the secretary and sits down, rubbing the
text: back of his head. He rolls up the carriage and looks at the
text: page in the typewriter.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
dialog: The page.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
text: A TENEMENT BUILDING
text: On Manhattan's Lower East Side. Early morning traffic is
text: audible, as is the cry fishmongers.
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: He rubs the back of his head, wincing, as he stares at the
dialog: page.
text: His gaze drifts up.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
dialog: The bathing beauty.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Looking at the picture. He presses the heels of his hands
text: against his ears.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The bathing beauty. Faint, but building, is the sound of the
dialog: surf.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Head cocked. The surf is mixing into another liquid sound.
text: Barton looks sharply around.
speaker_heading: THE BATHROOM
text: Barton enters.
text: The sink, which Charlie apparently left running when he wet
text: Barton's towel, is overflowing. Water spills onto the tile
dialog: floor.
text: Barton hurriedly shuts off the tap, rolls up one sleeve and
text: reaches into the sink.
text: As his hand emerges, holding something, we hear the unclogged
text: sink gulp water.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S HAND
text: Holding a dripping wad of cotton.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: After a brief, puzzled look he realizes where the cotton
text: came from – and convulsively flips it away.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
text: ON THE TITLE PAGE OF A BOOK:
scene_heading: "NEBUCHADNEZZAR
speaker_heading: BY
dialog: W.P. Mayhew"
text: A hand enters with pen to inscribe: "To Barton –
dialog: May this little entertainment divert you in your sojourn
dialog: among the Philistines. – Bill"
text: The book is closed and picked up.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: As-thoomp!-the heavy volume is deposited across the table,
text: in front of Barton, by Mayhew.
text: Barton, Mayhew, and Audrey are seated around a picnic table.
text: It is one of a few tables littering the lot of a small stucco
text: open-air hamburger stand.
text: It is peaceful early evening. The last of the sunlight slopes
text: down through palm trees. Barton, Mayhew, and Audrey are the
text: only customers at the stand.
text: Mayhew's black Ford stands alone at the edge of the lot.
text: Mayhew leans back in his chair.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: If I close m'eyes I can almost smell
text: the live oak.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: That's hamburger grease, Bill.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Well, m'olfactory's turnin' womanish
dialog: on me – lyin' and deceitful...
text: His eyes still closed, he waves a limp hand gently in the
dialog: breeze.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: ...Still, I must say. I haven't felt
dialog: peace like this since the grand
dialog: productive days. Don't you find it
dialog: so, Barton? Ain't writin' peace?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well... actually, no Bill...
text: Barton looks nervously at Audrey before continuing.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...No, I've always found that writing
dialog: comes from a great inner pain. Maybe
dialog: it's a pain that comes from a
dialog: realization that one must do something
dialog: for one's fellow man – to help somehow
dialog: to ease his suffering. Maybe it's a
dialog: personal pain. At any rate, I don't
dialog: believe good work is possible without
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Mmm. Wal, me, I just enjoy maikn'
dialog: things up. Yessir. Escape... It's
dialog: when I can't write, can't escape
dialog: m'self, that I want to tear m'head
text: off and run screamin' down the street
text: with m'balls in a fruitpickers pail.
dialog: Mm...
text: He sighs and reaches for a bottle of Wild Turkey.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: ...This'll sometimes help.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: That doesn't help anything, Bill.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: That's true, Bill. I've never found
dialog: it to help my writing.
dialog: Mayhew is becoming testy:
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Your writing? Son, have you ever
dialog: heard the story of Soloman's mammy-
text: Audrey, anticipating, jumps hastily in. She taps the book on
dialog: the table.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: You should read this, Barton. I think
dialog: it's Bill's finest, or among his
dialog: finest anyway.
text: Mayhew looks at her narrowly.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: So now I'm s'posed to roll over like
dialog: an ol' bitch dog gettin' ger belly
dialog: scratched.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Bill –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Look, maybe it's none of my business,
dialog: but a man with your talent – don't
dialog: you think your first obligation would
dialog: be to your gift? Shouldn't you be
dialog: doing whatever you have to do to
dialog: work again?
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: And what would that be, son?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I don't know exactly. But I do know
dialog: what you're doing with that drink.
dialog: You're cutting yourself off from
dialog: your gift, and from me and Audrey,
dialog: and from your fellow man, and from
dialog: everything your art is about.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: No son, thisahere moonshine's got
dialog: nothin' to do with shuttin' folks
dialog: out. No, I'm usin' it to build
dialog: somethin'.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: I'm buildin' a levee. Gulp by gulp,
text: brick by brick. Raisin' up a levee
dialog: to keep that ragin' river of manure
dialog: from lappin' at m'door.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Maybe you better too, Barton. Before
dialog: you get buried under his manure.
text: Mayhew chuckles.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
text: M'honey pretends to be impatient
dialog: with me, Barton, but she'll put up
dialog: with anything.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Not anything, Bill. Don't test me.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You're lucky she puts up with as
text: much as she does.
text: Mayhew is getting to his feet.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Am I? Maybe to a schoolboy's eye.
dialog: People who know about the human heart,
dialog: though, mebbe they'd say, Bill over
dialog: here, he gives his honey love, and
text: she pays him back with pity – the
dialog: basest coin there is.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Stop it, Bill!
text: He wanders over to a corner of the lot between two palm trees,
text: still clutching his bottle, his back to Barton and Audrey,
text: and urinates into the grass.
text: He is singing – loudly – "Old Black Joe."
text: Audrey walks over to him.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Watching her go.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Audrey touches Mayhew's elbow. He looks at her, stops singing,
text: she murmurs something, and he bellows:
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: The truth, m'honey, is a tart that
text: does not bear scrutiny.
text: She touches him again, murmuring, and he lashes out at her,
text: knocking her to the ground.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Breach my levee at your peril!
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He rises.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
text: Coming back to Barton.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
text: Stumbling off down the dusty road, muttering to himself and
text: waving his bottle of Wild Turkey.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Let him go.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: That son of a bitch... Don't get me
dialog: wrong, he's a fine writer.
text: He looks down the road. Mayhew is a small lone figure, weaving
text: in the dust.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: I'll jus' walk on down to the Pacific,
dialog: and from there I'll... improvise.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Are you all right?
text: We hear distant bellowing:
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Silent upon a hill in Darien!
text: Audrey bursts into tears. Barton puts his arms around her
text: and she leans into him.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Audrey, you can't put up with this.
text: Gradually, she collects herself, wiping her tears.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: ...Oh Barton, I feel so... sorry for
dialog: him!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What?! He's a son of a bitch!
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: No, sometimes he just... well, he
text: thinks about Estelle. His wife still
dialog: lives in Fayettesville. She's...
dialog: disturbed.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Really?...
text: He considers this for a moment, but his anger returns.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Well that doesn't excuse his
dialog: behavior.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: He'll wander back when he's sober
dialog: and apologize. He always does.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Okay, but that doesn't excuse his –
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Barton. Empathy requires...
dialog: understanding.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What. What don't I understand?
text: Audrey gazes at him.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
text: He is very distant now, weaving but somehow dignified in his
text: light summer suit. "Old Black Joe" floats back to us in the
text: twilight.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
scene_heading: BARTON'S HOTEL ROOM
text: From a high angle, booming down on Barton.
text: The room is dark. Barton lies fully clothed, stretched out
text: on the bed, asleep. The hum of the mosquito fades up in the
text: stillness.
text: Suddenly Barton slaps his cheek. His eyes open, but he remains
text: still. The hum fades up again. Barton reaches over and turns
text: on the bedside lamp. His eyes shift this way and that as he
text: waits, listening.
text: The hum fades down to silence.
text: Barton's eyes shift.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The typewriter sits on the secretary, a piece of paper rolled
text: halfway through the carriage.
scene_heading: THE TYPEWRITER
text: Barton enters frame and sits down in front of the typewriter.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Next to the typewriter are several crumpled pieces of paper.
text: The page in the carriage reads:
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: A TENEMENT HOTEL
text: On the Lower East Side. We can faintly hear the cry of the
text: fishmongers. It is too early for us to hear traffic; later,
dialog: perhaps, we will.
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: Looking down at the page.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON BARTON'S FEET
text: Swinging in the legwell.
text: One foot idly swings over to nudge a pair of nicely shined
text: shoes from where they rest, under the secretary, into the
text: legwell.
text: We hear typing start.
speaker_heading: THE PAGE
text: A new paragraph being started: "A large man..."
speaker_heading: BARTON'S FEET
text: As he slides them into the shoes.
speaker_heading: THE PAGE
dialog: "A large man in tights..."
text: The typing stops.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Looking quizzically at the page. What's wrong?
speaker_heading: HIS FEET
text: Sliding back and forth – swimming – in his shoes, which are
text: several sizes too large.
text: We hear a knock at the door.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He rises and answers the door.
text: Charlie stands smiling in the doorway, holding a pair of
text: nicely shined shoes.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I hope these are your shoes.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Hi, Charlie.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Because that would mean they gave
dialog: you mine.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah, as a matter of fact they did.
dialog: Come on in.
text: The two stocking-footed men go into the room and Barton
text: reaches under the secretary for Charlie's shoes.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Jesus, what a day I've had. Ever had
dialog: one of those days?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Seems like nothing but, lately.
text: Chalrie perches on the edge of the bed.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Jesus, what a day. Felt like I
dialog: couldn't've sold ice water in the
dialog: Sahara. Jesus. Okay, so you don't
dialog: want insurance, so okay, that's your
dialog: loss. But God, people can be rude.
dialog: Feel like I have to talk to a normal
dialog: person like just to restore a little
dialog: of my...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, my pleasure. I could use a
dialog: little lift myself.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: A little lift, yeah...
text: Smiling, he takes out his flask.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Good thing they bottle it, huh
dialog: pal?
text: He takes a glass from the bedstand and, as he pours Barton a
dialog: shot:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Did I say rude? People can be
dialog: goddamn cruel. Especially some of
dialog: their housewives. Okay, so I've got
dialog: a weight problem. That's my cross to
dialog: bear. I dunno...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well it's... it's a defense mechanism.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Defense against what? Insurance?
dialog: Something they need? Something they
dialog: should be thanking me for offering?
dialog: A little peace of mind?...
text: He shakes his head.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Finally decided to knock off early,
dialog: take your advice. Went to see a doctor
dialog: about this.
text: He indicates his ear, still stuffed with cotton.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...He told me it was an ear infection.
dialog: Ten dollars, please. I said, hell, I
dialog: told YOU my ear was infected. Why
dialog: don't YOU give ME ten dollars? Well,
dialog: THAT led to an argument...
text: He gives a rueful chuckle.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Listen to me belly-achin'. As if
dialog: my problems amounted to a hill of
dialog: beans. How goes the life of the mind?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, it's been better. I can't seem
dialog: to get going on this thing. That one
dialog: idea, the one that lets you get
dialog: started – I still haven't gotten it.
dialog: Maybe I only had one idea in me – my
dialog: play. Maybe once that was done, I
dialog: was done being a writer. Christ, I
dialog: feel like a fraud, sitting here
text: staring at this paper.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Those two love-birds next door drivin'
dialog: you nuts?
text: Barton looks at him curiously.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: How did you know about that?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Know about it? I can practically see
dialog: how they're doin' it. Brother, I
dialog: wish I had a piece of that.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah, but –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Seems like I hear everything that
text: goes on in this dump. Pipes or
dialog: somethin'. I'm just glad I don't
dialog: have to ply MY trade in the wee-wee
dialog: hours.
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Ah, you'll lick this picture
dialog: business, believe me. You've got a
dialog: head on your shoulders. What is it
dialog: they say? Where there's a head,
dialog: there's a hope?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Where there's life there's hope.
text: Charlie laughs.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: That proves you really are a writer!
text: Barton smiles.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: And there's hope for you too, Charlie.
dialog: Tomorrow I bet you sell a half-dozen
dialog: policies.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Thanks, brother. But the fact is, I
dialog: gotta pull up stakes temporarily.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You're leaving?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: In a few days. Out to your stompin'
dialog: grounds as a matter of fact – New
dialog: York City. Things have gotten all
text: balled up at the Head Office.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm truly sorry to hear that, Charlie.
dialog: I'll miss you.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Well hell, buddy, don't pull a long
dialog: face! This is still home for me – I
dialog: keep my room, and I'll be back sooner
dialog: or later...
text: Barton rises and walks over to his writing table.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...And – mark my words – by the time
dialog: I get back you're picture'll be
dialog: finished. I know it.
text: Barton scribbles on a notepad and turns to hand it to Charlie.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: New York can be pretty cruel to
dialog: strangers, Charlie. If you need a
dialog: home-cooked meal you just look up
dialog: Morris and Lillian Fink. They live
dialog: on Fulton Street with my uncle Dave.
text: We hear a tacky, tearing sound.
text: Barton looks toward the door.
text: Charlie rises and walks over to the stand next to where Barton
dialog: sits.
text: The two staring men form an odd, motionless tableau – the
text: slight, bespectacled man seated; the big man standing in a
text: hunch with his hands on his thighs; their heads close
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: THEIR POV
text: A swath of wallpaper in the entryway has pulled away from
text: the wall. It sags and nods.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (off)
dialog: Christ!
speaker_heading: THE TWO MEN
text: Frozen, looking.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Your room does that too?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I guess the heat's sweating off the
text: wallpaper.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: What a dump...
text: He heads for the door and Barton follows.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...I guess it seems pathetic to a
dialog: guy like you.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well...
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Well it's pathetic, isn't it? I mean
text: to a guy from New York.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: This kind of heat. It's pathetic.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, I guess you pick your poison.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: So they say.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Don't pick up and leave without saying
dialog: goodbye.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Course not, compadre. You'll see me
dialog: again.
text: Barton closes the door.
text: He goes back to the desk, sits, and stares at the typewriter.
text: After a beat he tips back in his chair and looks up at the
dialog: ceiling.
text: We hear a loud thump.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The ceiling – a white, seamless space.
text: As we track in the thumping continues – slowly, rhythmically,
text: progressively louder – the effect, it seems, of odd doings
text: upstairs.
text: LOOKING DOWN ON BARTON
text: From a high angle, tipped back in his chair, staring at the
dialog: ceiling.
text: We track slowly down toward him. The thumping continues,
text: growing louder, sharper.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Moving in on the ceiling. We close in on an unblemished area
text: and cease to have any sense of movement.
text: With a blur something huge and dark sweeps across the frame
text: to land with a deafening crash, and an instant later it is
text: gone, having left a huge black "T" stamped into the white
dialog: ceiling.
text: We are pulling back from the white, past the metal prongs of
text: the key-strike area on a typewriter. More letters appear
text: rapid-fire, growing smaller as the pull back continues. The
text: thumpimg becomes the clacking of the typewriter.
speaker_heading: BEN GEISLER
text: Is emerging from his office. As he enters the secretary
text: stops typing, glances down at a slip of paper, and murmurs
text: tonelessly, without looking up:
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Barton Fink.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Yeah. Fink. Come in.
text: The clack of the typewriter resumes as Barton rises.
speaker_heading: GEISLER'S OFFICE
text: The two men enter.
text: This office is considerably smaller than Lipnik's, done in
text: grays and black. There are pictures on the wall of Geisler
dialog: with various celebrities.
text: Geisler sits behind his desk.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Wuddya got for me – what the hell
dialog: happened to your face?
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Nothing. It's just a mosquito bite.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Like hell it is; there are no
text: mosquitos in Los Angeles. Mosquitos
dialog: breed in swamps – this is a desert
dialog: town. Wuddya got for me?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well I...
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: On the Beery picture! Where are we?
dialog: Wuddya got?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, to tell you the truth, I'm
dialog: having some trouble getting started–
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Getting STARTED! Christ Jesus!
dialog: Started?! You mean you don't have
dialog: ANYthing?!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well not much.
text: Geisler leaps to his feet and paces.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: What do you think this is? HAMLET?
text: GONE WITH THE WIND? RUGGLES OF RED
dialog: GAP? It's a goddamn B picture! Big
dialog: men in tights! You know the drill!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm afraid I don't really understand
dialog: that genre. maybe that's the prob-
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Understand shit! I though you were
dialog: gonna consult another writer on this!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well, I've talked to Bill Mayhew-
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Bill Mayhew! Some help! The guy's a
dialog: souse!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: He's a great writer –
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: A souse!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You don't understand. He's in pain,
dialog: because he can't write-
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Souse! Souse! He manages to write
text: his name on the back of his paycheck
dialog: every week!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: But... I thought no one cared about
dialog: this picture.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: You thought! Where'd you get THAT
dialog: from? You thought! I don't know
dialog: what the hell you said to Lipnik,
dialog: but the sonofabitch LIKES you! You
dialog: understand that, Fink? He LIKES you!
dialog: He's taken an interest. NEVER make
dialog: Lipnik like you. NEVER!
text: Some puzzlement shows through Barton's weariness.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I don't understand-
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Are you deaf, he LIKES you! He's
dialog: taken an interest! What the hell did
dialog: you say to him?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I didn't say anything-
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Well he's taken an interest! That
dialog: means he'll make your life hell,
dialog: which I could care less about, but
dialog: since I drew the short straw to
dialog: supervise this turkey, he's gonna be
dialog: all over me too! Fat-assed sonofabitch
dialog: called me yesterday to ask how it's
dialog: going – don't worry, I covered for
dialog: you. Told him you were making progress
dialog: and we were all very excited. I told
dialog: him it was great, so now MY ass is
dialog: on the line. He wants you to tell
dialog: him all about it tomorrow.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I can't write anything by tomorrow.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Who said write? Jesus, Jack can't
dialog: read. You gotta TELL it to him-tell
dialog: him SOMEthing for Chrissake.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well what do I tell him?
text: Geisler rubs a temple, studies Barton for a beat, then picks
text: up a telephone.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: Projection...
text: As he waits, Geisler gives Barton a withering stare. It
text: continues throughout the phone conversation.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: ... Jerry? Ben Geisler here. Any of
dialog: the screening rooms free this
dialog: afternoon?... Good, book it for me.
dialog: A writer named Fink is gonna come in
dialog: and you're gonna show him wrestling
dialog: pictures... I don't give a shit which
dialog: ones! WRESTLING pictures! Wait a
dialog: minute- isn't Victor Sjoderberg
dialog: shooting one now?... Show him some
dialog: of the dailies on that.
text: He slams down the phone.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: ...This ought to give you some ideas.
text: He jots an address on a piece of paper and hands it to Barton.
speaker_heading: GEISLER
dialog: ...Eight-fifteen tomorrow morning at
text: Lipnik's house. Ideas. Broad strokes.
dialog: Don't cross me, Fink.
speaker_heading: SCREEN
text: Black-and-white footage. A middle-aged man with a clapstick
text: enters and shouts:
speaker_heading: CLAPPER
text: DEVIL ON THE CANVAS, twelve baker
dialog: take one.
text: Clap! The clapper withdraws. The angle is on a corner of the
text: ring, where an old corner man stands behind his charge, a
text: huge man in tights who is a little too flabby to be a real
text: athlete. His hair is plastered against his bullet skull and
text: he has a small mustache.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Action.
text: The wrestler rises from his stool and heads toward center
text: ring and the camera. He affects a German accent:
speaker_heading: WRESTLER
dialog: I will destroy him!
text: He passes the camera.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Cut.
text: Flash frames.
text: The clapper enters again.
speaker_heading: CLAPPER
text: Twelve baker take two.
text: Clap! He exits.
text: The wrestler moves toward the camera.
speaker_heading: WRESTLER
dialog: I will destroy him!
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Cut.
text: The clapper enters
speaker_heading: CLAPPER
text: Twelve baker take three.
dialog: Clap!
speaker_heading: WRESTLER
dialog: I will destroy him!
text: SLOW TRACK IN ON BARTON
text: Seated alone in a dark screening room, the shaft of the
text: projection beam flickering over his left shoulder.
dialog: As we creep in closer:
speaker_heading: WRESTLER
dialog: (off)
dialog: I will destroy him!... I will destroy
dialog: him!... I will destroy him!... I
dialog: will destroy him!...
text: Another off-microphone, distant voice from the screen:
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Okay, take five...
speaker_heading: THE SCREEN
text: A jerky pan, interrupted by flash frames. The wrestler is
text: standing in a corner joking with a makeup girl who pats down
text: his face as he smokes a cigarette.
text: A cut in the film and another clapstick enters.
speaker_heading: CLAPPER
dialog: Twelve charlie take one-
scene_heading: ON THE CLAP:
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: Staring at the screen, dull, wan, and forlorn.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: (off)
dialog: Action.
speaker_heading: THE SCREEN
text: The angle is low – canvas level. We hold for a brief moment
text: on the empty canvas before two wrestlers crash down into
dialog: frame.
text: The German is underneath, on his back, pinned by the other
dialog: man.
text: The referee enters, cropped at the knees, and throws counting
text: fingers down into frame.
speaker_heading: REFEREE
dialog: One... two...
speaker_heading: WRESTLER
speaker_heading: AAAAHHHH!!
text: The German bucks and throws his opponent out of frame.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Cut.
speaker_heading: CLAPPER
text: Twelve charlie take two.
dialog: Crash.
speaker_heading: REFEREE
dialog: One... two...
speaker_heading: WRESTLER
speaker_heading: AAAAHHHH!!
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Glazed.
speaker_heading: WRESTLER
dialog: (off)
text: AAAAAAHHHHHH!!... AAAAAAHHHHHH!!...
text: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!...
scene_heading: PAGE IN TYPEWRITER
text: The screaming drops out abruptly at cut. We hear only the
text: sound of heavy footfalls on carpet.
text: Below the opening paragraph, two new words have been added
dialog: to the typescript:
dialog: "Orphan?"
dialog: "Dame?"
text: The foot falls continue.
scene_heading: THE HOTEL ROOM
text: Night. Barton paces frantically back and forth.
text: He looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: It is 12:30.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON THE PHONE
text: It is lifted out of the cradle.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Hello, Chet, it's Barton Fink in
dialog: 605. Can you try a number for me in
text: Hollywood... Slausen 6-4304.
text: We pull back to frame in Barton as we hear his call ring
text: through. Barton sweats.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Pick it up... Pick it up. Pick it-
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Audrey, listen, I need help. I know
dialog: it's late and I shouldn't be calling
dialog: you like this – believe me I wouldn't
dialog: have if I could see any other
dialog: alternative, but I – I'm sorry -
dialog: listen, how are you – I'm sorry. You
dialog: doing okay?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: ...Who is this?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Barton. I'm sorry, it's Barton Fink.
text: Through the phone, in the background, we hear Mayhew's drunken
text: bellowing.
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Sons of bitches! Drown 'em all!
text: We hear various objects dropping or being thrown to the floor.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Barton, I'm afraid it's not a good
dialog: time-
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Drown all those rascals...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm sorry, I just feel like –I know
dialog: I shouldn't ask, I just need some
dialog: kind of help, I just, I have a
dialog: deadline tomorrow-
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: I said drown 'em all! Who is that?
text: There is more clatter.
text: Audrey's voice is hushed, close to the phone:
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: All right Barton, I'll see if I can
dialog: slip away-
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Who is that?! Gaddamn voices come
dialog: into the house... sons of bitches...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: If you could, I'd –
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: If I can. He gets jealous; he-
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
text: Goddamn voices... DROWN 'EM!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I need help, Audrey.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: I'll try to slip out. If he quiets
dialog: down, passes out... I'm afraid he
dialog: thinks – well, he said you were a
text: buffoon, Barton. He becomes
dialog: irrational–
speaker_heading: MAYHEW
dialog: Hesh up! Be still now! DROWN 'EM!
scene_heading: DROWN 'EM! DROWN –
scene_heading: WIDE ON THE ROOM
text: Later. It is quiet. We are craning down toward the bed, where
text: Barton lies stretched out, his head buried beneath a pillow
text: as if to blot out the world.
text: The track reveals the wristwatch on Barton's dangled arm:
dialog: 1:30.
scene_heading: THE HALLWAY
text: At the end of the dimly lit corridor a red light blinks on
text: over the elevator, with a faint bell.
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: With two violent and simultaneous motions he whips the pillow
text: off his head and throws out his other wrist to look at his
dialog: watch.
text: There is a knock at the door.
text: Barton swings his feet off the bed.
speaker_heading: THE DOORWAY
text: Barton opens the door to Audrey.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Hello, Barton.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Audrey, thank you for coming. Thank
dialog: you. I'm sorry to be such a... such
dialog: a... Thank you.
text: They enter the main room, where Audrey perches on the edge
text: of the bed.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Now that's all right, Barton.
dialog: Everything'll be all right.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yes. Thank you. How's Bill?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Oh, he's... he drifted off. He'll
dialog: sleep for a while now. What is it
dialog: you have to do, exactly?
text: Barton paces.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well I have to come up with – an
dialog: outline, I'd guess you call it. The
dialog: story. The whole goddamn story. Soup
dialog: to nuts. Three acts. The whole goddamn-
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: It's alright, Barton. You don't have
dialog: to write actual scenes?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No, but the whole goddamn – Audrey?
dialog: Have you ever had to read any of
dialog: Bill's wrestling scenarios?
text: Audrey laughs.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Yes, I'm afraid I have.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What are they like? What are they
dialog: about?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Well, usually, they're... simply
dialog: morality tales. There's a good
text: wrestler, and a bad wrestler whom he
text: confronts at the end. In between,
text: the good wrestler has a love interest
dialog: or a child he has to protect. Bill
dialog: would usually make the good wrestler
dialog: a backwoods type, or a convict. And
dialog: sometimes, instead of a waif, he'd
dialog: have the wrestler protecting an idiot
dialog: manchild. The studio always hated
dialog: that. Oh, some of the scripts were
dialog: so... spirited!
text: She laughs – then stops, realizing that she has laughed. She
text: looks at Barton.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: ...Barton.
text: She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: ...Look, it's really just a formula.
dialog: You don't have to type your soul
dialog: into it. We'll invent some names
dialog: and a new setting. I'll help you
dialog: and it won't take any time at all. I
dialog: did it for Bill so many times –
text: Barton's pacing comes up short.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Did what for Bill?
dialog: Guardedly:
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Well... THIS.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You wrote his scripts for him?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Well, the basic ideas were frequently
dialog: his-
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You wrote Bill's scripts! Jesus
dialog: Christ, you wrote his – what about
dialog: before that?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Before what?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Before Bill came to Hollywood.
text: Audrey is clearly reluctant to travel this path.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Well, Bill was ALWAYS the author, so
dialog: to speak-
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What do you mean so to speak?! Audrey,
dialog: how long have you been his...
dialog: secretary?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Barton, I think we should concentrate
dialog: on OUR little project-
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I want to know how many of Bill's
dialog: books you wrote!
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Barton!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I want to know!
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Barton, honestly, only the last couple-
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Hah!
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: And my input was mostly... EDITORIAL,
dialog: really, when he'd been drinking-
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'll bet. Jesus – "The grand
dialog: productive days." What a goddamn
dialog: phony.
text: He resumes pacing.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...W.P. Mayhew. William Goddamn
text: Phony Mayhew. All his guff about
dialog: escape. Hah! I'LL say he escaped!
text: Barton sighs and looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Well, we don't have much time.
text: He sits down next to Audrey. Audrey's tone is gentle.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: It'll be fine... Don't judge him,
dialog: Barton. Don't condescend to him...
text: She strokes Barton's hair.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: ...It's not as simple as you think.
dialog: I helped Bill most by appreciating
dialog: him, by understanding him. We all
dialog: need understanding, Barton. Even
dialog: you, tonight, it's all you really
dialog: need...
text: She kisses him.
text: As Barton tentatively responds, we are panning away.
text: We frame up on the door to the bathroom and track in toward
text: the sink. We can hear the creak of bedsprings and Audrey and
text: Barton's breath, becoming labored.
text: The continuing track brings us up to and over the lid of the
text: sink to frame up its drain, a perfect black circle in the
text: porcelain white. We track up to the drain and are enveloped
text: by it as the sound of lovemaking mixes into the groaning of
dialog: pipes.
speaker_heading: BLACK
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: The hum of a mosquito brings us out of the black and we are
text: looking down at Barton, in bed, asleep. It is dawn.
text: Barton's eyes snap open.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The white ceiling. A humming black speck flits across the
dialog: white.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Slowly, cautiously, he props himself up, his look following
text: the sound of the mosquito.
text: His gaze travels down and to one side and is arrested as the
text: hum stops.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Audrey lies facing away on her side of the bed, half covered
text: by a blanket.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Gingerly, he reaches over and draws the blanket down Audrey's
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The alabaster white of Audrey's back.
text: The mosquito is feeding on it.
scene_heading: EXTREME CLOSE ON BARTON'S EYES
dialog: Looking.
text: EXTREME CLOSE ON THE MOSQUITO
text: Swelling with blood.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: As Barton's hand comes through frame and slaps Audrey's back.
text: She doesn't react.
text: Barton draws his hand away. Audrey's back is smeared with
dialog: blood.
speaker_heading: ON BARTON
text: He looks at his hand.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: His hand is dripping with blood. Too much blood.
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: Eyes wide, he looks down at the bed.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Blood seeps up into the sheet beneath the curve of Audrey's
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He pulls Audrey's shoulder.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
text: She rolls onto her back. Her eyes are wide and lifeless.
text: Her stomach is nothing but blood. The top sheet, drawn to
text: her waist is drenched red and clings to her body.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He screams.
text: He screams again.
text: We hear rapid and heavy footfalls next door, a door opening
text: and closing, and then a loud banging on Barton's door.
text: Barton's head spins towards the door. He is momentarily
text: frozen.
text: Another knock.
text: Barton leaps to his feet and hurries to the door.
speaker_heading: THE DOORWAY
text: Over Barton's shoulder as he cracks the door.
text: Charlie stands in the hall in his boxer shorts and a
text: sleeveless tee.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Are you all right?
text: Barton stares dumbly for a moment.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Can I come in?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No!... I'm fine. Thank you.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Are you sure –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No... no...
text: Barton is nodding as he shuts the door in Charlie's face.
text: He walks back into the room.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Audrey's corpse, in long shot, face up on the bed.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He walks toward the bed, wheels before he reaches it, and
text: starts back toward the door.
text: He stops short and turns back again to the room. He averts
text: his eyes – as it happens, toward the secretary.
text: He walks stiffly over and sits, his back to Audrey.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON BARTON
text: As he sits in. He stares emptily down at the desk, in shock,
text: totally shut down. Behind him, we can see Audrey on the bed.
text: He stares for a long beat.
text: Strange, involuntary noises come from his throat. He is not
dialog: in control.
text: Becoming aware of the noise he is making, he stops.
text: He lurches to his feet.
speaker_heading: THE DOORWAY
text: As Barton enters, opens the door, and sticks his head out.
speaker_heading: HALLWAY
text: Barton peers out the see if the coast is clear.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The long hallway.
text: In the deep background, Chet, the night clerk, is stooping
text: in front of a door to pick up a pair of shoes. Next to him
text: is a castored shoe caddy.
text: All of the doorways between us and Chet are empty of shoes.
speaker_heading: CHET
text: Close on him as, mid-stoop, he looks up.
speaker_heading: CHET'S POV
text: Up the long hall. In the deep background a door is closing.
speaker_heading: CHET
text: He pauses, then straightens up and puts the shoes on the
text: shoe caddy. It squeaks as he pushes it on down the hall.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S ROOM
text: Barton stands at the door, listening to a very faint squeak.
text: Eventually it becomes inaudible.
text: He cracks the door again, looks out, and exits.
speaker_heading: HALLWAY
text: Barton goes to Charlie's room and knocks.
text: Footfalls end as the door is cracked open.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Barton. Are you all right?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No... Can I come in?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Why don't we go to your room-
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Charlie, I'm in trouble. You've gotta
dialog: help me.
text: Once again he is breathing hard.
text: Charlie steps out into the hall and shuts the door behind
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Get a grip on yourself, brother.
dialog: Whatever the problem is, we'll sort
dialog: it out.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Charlie, I'm in trouble – something
dialog: horrible's happened – I've gotta
dialog: call the police...
text: Charlie leads him towards his room.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Will you stay with me till they
dialog: get here?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Don't worry about it, Barton. We can
dialog: sort it-
text: He is pushing Barton's door open, but Barton grabs an elbow
dialog: to stop him.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Before you go in – I didn't do this.
dialog: I don't know how it happened, but I
dialog: didn't... I want you to know that...
text: Charlie looks into his eyes. For a moment the two men stare
text: at each other – Charlie's look inquisitive, Barton's
dialog: supplicating.
text: Finally, Charlie nods.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Okay.
text: He turns and pushes open the door.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S ROOM
text: The two men enter.
text: Barton lingers by the door. Charlie walks into the foreground
text: to look off toward the bed.
text: His eyes widen and he screams.
text: He turns and disappears into the bathroom. We hear vomiting,
text: then the flush of a toilet.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Jesus... Jesus... Jesus have mercy...
text: His reaction has not encouraged Barton, who is more and more
text: agitated.
text: Charlie emerges from the bathroom, sweating.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Jesus, Barton, what the hell is
dialog: this? What're we gonna do?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I've gotta call the police – or you
dialog: could call for me –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hold on –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You gotta believe me –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hold on –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I didn't do this, I did NOT do this–
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hold on. Stop. Take a deep breath.
dialog: Tell me what happened.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I don't know! I woke up, she was...
dialog: God, you gotta believe me!
text: Charlie, in spite of himself, is sneaking horrified glances
text: back into the room.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I believe you, brother, but this
dialog: don't look good.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: We gotta call the police –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Hold on. I said hold on, so hold on.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: What do you think happened?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I don't know! Maybe it was her...
dialog: boyfriend. I passed out. I don't
dialog: know. Won't the police be able to –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Stop with the police! Wake up, friend!
dialog: This does not look good! They hang
dialog: people for this!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: But I didn't do it – don't you believe
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I believe you – I KNOW you. But why
dialog: should the police?
text: Barton gives him a dumb stare.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Did you... Barton, between you
dialog: and me, did you have sexual
dialog: intercourse?
text: Barton stares at Charlie. He swallows.
text: Charlie shakes his head.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Jesus... They can tell that...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: They GOTTA believe me, Charlie! They
dialog: gotta have mercy!
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: You're in pictures, Barton. Even if
dialog: you got cleared eventually, this
dialog: would ruin you.
text: He turns and starts toward the bed.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Wait in the bathroom.
speaker_heading: BATHROOM
text: Later. Barton, still in his underwear, sits leaning against
text: the wall, staring glassily at his feet.
text: From the other room we hear the creak of bedsprings and the
text: sounds of bed clothes being torn off.
text: Finally there is a last creak of bedsprings and the sound of
text: Charlie grunting under great weight.
text: We hear heavy footsteps approaching.
text: Barton looks up through the open bathroom door.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Charlie is groping for the front doorknob, cradling the
text: sheetswaddled body in his arms.
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: His neck goes rubbery. His eyes roll up. His head lolls back
text: to hit the wall.
speaker_heading: BLACK
dialog: Slap! Slap!
text: We are low on Charlie, who is following through on a slap
text: and backing away, having aroused Barton. Charlie is now
text: wearing pants but is still in his sleeveless tee, which has
text: blood flecks across the belly.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: You passed out.
text: Barton looks groggily up.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Uh-huh... Where's Audrey?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: She's dead, Barton! If that was her
dialog: name.
text: TRACKING IN ON BARTON
text: He stares at Charlie.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (off)
dialog: Barton, listen to me. You gotta act
dialog: like nothing's happened. Put this
dialog: totally out of your head. I know
dialog: that's hard, but your play from here
dialog: on out is just to go about business
dialog: as usual. Give us some time to sort
dialog: this out...
text: Barton looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: THE WATCH
dialog: 7:45.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (off)
dialog: ...Just put it out of you head...
speaker_heading: TRACKING
text: Toward a pool set in a grand yard with shaped hedges and
text: statuary set amid palms trees.
text: Sunlight glitters angrily off the water; we are approaching
text: Jack Lipnik who sits poolside in a white deck chair.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Bart! So happy to see ya!
speaker_heading: REVERSE
text: Pulling Barton, who is being escorted by Lou Breeze.
text: Barton is haggard, sunken eyes squinting against too much
dialog: sun.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Sit! Talk! Relax for a minute, then
dialog: talk! Drink?
dialog: As Barton sits:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah... rye whiskey?
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Boy! You writers! Work hard, play
dialog: hard! That's what I hear, anyway...
text: He laughs, then barks at Lou Breeze.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ... Lou.
text: Lou exits.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Anyway. Ben Geisler tells me things're
dialog: going along great. Thinks we've got
dialog: a real winner in this one. And let
dialog: me tell you something, I'm counting
dialog: on it. I've taken an interest. Not
dialog: to interfere, mind you – hardly seems
dialog: necessary in your case. A writer – a
dialog: storyteller – of your stature.
dialog: Givitta me in bold strokes, Bart.
dialog: Gimme the broad outlines. I'm sitting
text: in the audience, the lights go down,
dialog: Capitol logo comes up... you're on!
text: He beams expectantly at Barton. Barton licks his parched
text: lips.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah, okay... well... we fade in...
text: Lipnik is nodding, already involved in the story.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: ...It's a tenement building. On the
dialog: Lower East Side...
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Great! He's poor, this wrestler!
dialog: He's had to struggle!
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: And then... well...
text: Barton looks back out at the pool, his eyes closed to slits
text: against the sun. He looks back at Lipnik.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Can I be honest, Mr. Lipnik?
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: CAN you? You damn well better be.
dialog: Jesus, if I hadn't been honest in my
dialog: business dealings – well, of course,
dialog: you can't always be honest, not with
dialog: the sharks swimming around this town
dialog: – but if you're a writer, you don't
dialog: think about those things – if I'd
dialog: been totally honest, I wouldn't be
dialog: within a mile of this pool – unless
dialog: I was cleaning it. But that's no
dialog: reason for you not to be. Honest, I
dialog: mean. Not cleaning the pool.
text: Lou has entered with a drink, which he sets next to Barton.
text: Lou sits.
text: Barton looks around, takes the drink, sips at it greedily,
text: but must finally take the plunge.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well... to be honest, I'm never really
text: comfortable discussing a work in
dialog: progress. I've got it all worked
dialog: out in my head, but sometimes if you
dialog: force it out in words – prematurely
dialog: – the wrong words – well, your meaning
dialog: changes, and it changes your own
dialog: mind, and you never get it back – so
dialog: I'd just as soon not talk about it.
text: Lipnik stares at him. His smile has disappeared. There is a
text: long beat.
text: Lou Breeze clears his throat. He apparently feels obliged to
text: fill the silence.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: ...Mr. Fink. Never mind me. Never
dialog: mind how long I've been in pictures.
text: Mr. Lipnik has been in pictures just
dialog: about since they were invented. HE
dialog: practically invented them.
text: Lipnik has turned to look curiously at Lou.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: ...Now I think if he's interested in
dialog: what one of his contract employees
dialog: is doing while he draws pay, I think
dialog: that employee ought to tell him, if
dialog: he wants to stay an employee. Right
dialog: now the contents of your head are
dialog: the property of Capitol Pictures, so
dialog: if I were you I would speak up. And
dialog: pretty goddamn fast.
text: Lou looks at Barton, expectantly. Lipnik continues to stare
dialog: at Lou.
text: There is a long silence, terribly heavy.
text: Finally, Lipnik explodes – at Lou.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: You lousy sonofabitch! You're telling
dialog: this man – this ARTIST – what to
dialog: do?!
text: Lou Breeze is stunned.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Mr. Lipnik, I –
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: This man creates for a living! He
dialog: puts food on your table and on mine!
dialog: THANK him for it! Thank him, you
dialog: ungrateful sonofabitch! Thank him or
dialog: YOU'RE fired!
text: Barton is staring, aghast.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Mr. Lipnik, that's not really necessar-
text: Lipnik, still staring at Lou, gives no sign of hearing Barton.
text: He rises and points.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Get down on your knees, you
dialog: sonofabitch! Get down on your knees
dialog: and kiss this man's feet!
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Mr. Lipnik, please –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I – Mr. Lipnik –
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
text: KISS THIS MAN'S FEET!!
text: Lou, aghast, looks at Barton.
text: Barton, aghast, can only return the same stunned look.
text: Lipnik snarls at Lou:
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...Okay, get out of here. You're
dialog: fired, you understand me? Get out
dialog: of my sight.
text: Lou gets stiffly to his feet and stumbles away.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Mr. Lipnik, I –
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: I apologize, Barton.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No no, Mr. Breeze has actually been
dialog: a great help –
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: You don't have to cover for him.
dialog: It's noble of you, but these things
dialog: happen in business.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Mr. Lipnik, I really would feel much
dialog: better if you could reconsider –
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Ah, forget it, kid. I want you to
dialog: pull this out of your head. If that
dialog: sonofabitch wouldn't apologize to
dialog: you, goddammit, I will. I respect
dialog: your artistry and your methods, and
dialog: if you can't fill us in yet, well
dialog: hell, we should be kissing your feet
dialog: for your fine efforts.
text: He gets down on his knees in front of Barton.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...You know in the old country we
dialog: were taught, as very young children,
dialog: that there's no shame in supplicatin'
dialog: yourself when you respect someone.
text: Barton stares, horrified, at Lipnik, on the ground at his
dialog: feet.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...On behalf of Capitol Pictures,
dialog: the administration, and all a the
dialog: stockholders, please accept this as
dialog: a symbol of our apology and respect.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S POV
text: Lipnik kisses his shoe and looks up at him.
text: Behind Lipnik the pool glitters.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S ROOM
text: The cut has a hard musical sting. Out of the sting comes a
text: loud but distorted thumping noise.
text: We are looking down, high angle, form one corner of the room.
text: We are presented with a motionless tableau: Barton sits,
text: hunched, in the far corner, elbows on knees, staring at the
text: bed in front of him. He wears only trousers and a T-shirt
text: and his body and face glisten with sweat. The bed's sheets
text: have been stripped and the ratty gray mattress has an enormous
text: rust-red stain in the middle.
text: After a beat, in the foreground, the only motion in the scene:
text: A bead of tacky yellow wall-sweat dribbles down the near
dialog: wall.
text: Silence, then the thumping repeats, resolving itself to a
text: knock at the door.
text: Barton rises slowly and crosses to the door.
speaker_heading: THE DOOR
text: Barton opens it to Charlie, who is dressed in a baggy suit,
text: his hair slicked back, a tan fedora pushed back on his head.
text: It is the first time we have seen him well turned out.
text: A battered briefcase is on the floor next to him. He holds a
text: parcel in his left hand, about one foot square, wrapped in
text: brown paper and tied up with twine.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Barton. Can I come in?
text: Barton stands back from the door and Charlie picks up his
text: briefcase and enters.
speaker_heading: THE ROOM
text: As the two men enter.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Jesus... You're leaving.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Have to, old timer. Just for a while.
dialog: Barton sounds desperate:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Jesus, Charlie, I...
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Everything's okay, believe me. I
dialog: know it's rough mentally, but
dialog: everything's taken care of.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Charlie! I've got no one else here!
dialog: You're the only person I know in Los
dialog: Angeles...
text: He starts weeping
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...that I can talk to.
text: Charlie, also disturbed and unhappy, wraps both arms around
dialog: Barton.
text: Barton sobs unashamedly into his shoulder. Charlie is somber.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: It's okay... It's okay...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Charlie, I feel like I'm going crazy
dialog: – like I'm losing my mind. I don't
dialog: know what to do... I didn't do it,
dialog: believe me. I'm sure of that, Charlie.
dialog: I just...
text: His breath comes in short gasping heaves.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...I just don't know what... to do–
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: You gotta get a grip on, brother.
dialog: You gotta just carry on – just for a
dialog: few days, till I get back. Try and
dialog: stay here, keep your door locked.
dialog: Don't talk to anyone. We just gotta
dialog: keep our heads and we'll figure it
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah, but Charlie –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Dammit, don't argue with me. You
dialog: asked me to believe you – well I do.
dialog: Now don't argue with me.
text: He looks at Barton for a beat.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Look, pal – can you do something
dialog: for me?
text: Charlie hands him his parcel.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Keep this for me, till I get back.
text: Barton, snuffling, accepts the package.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...It's just personal stuff. I don't
dialog: wanna drag it with me, but I don't
dialog: trust 'em downstairs, and I'd like
dialog: to think it's in good hands.
text: Still snuffling:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Sure, Charlie.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Funny, huh, when everything that's
dialog: important to a guy, everything he
dialog: wants to keep from a lifetime – when
dialog: he can fit it into a little box like
dialog: that. I guess... I guess it's kind
dialog: of pathetic.
dialog: Wallowing in self-pity:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: It's more than I've got.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Well, keep it for me. Maybe it'll
dialog: bring you good luck. Yeah, it'll
dialog: help you finish your script. You'll
dialog: think about me...
text: He thumps his chest.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Make me your wrestler. Then you'll
dialog: lick that story of yours.
text: Barton is tearfully sincere:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Thanks, Charlie.
text: Charlie solemnly thrusts out his hand.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Yeah, well, see you soon, friend.
dialog: You're gonna be fine.
text: Barton shakes. As they walk to the door:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: You'll be back?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Don't worry about that, compadre.
dialog: I'll be back.
text: Barton shuts the door behind Charlie, locks it, and turns
dialog: around.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The room. The bed. The blood-stained mattress.
text: Barton walks across the room and sits carefully at the edge
text: of the bed, avoiding the rust-colored stain. For a long beat,
text: he sits still, but something is building inside.
text: Finally, when we hear the distant ding of the elevator
text: arriving for Charlie, it erupts:
text: Barton sobs, with the unself-conscious grief of an abandoned
dialog: child.
speaker_heading: HIGH WIDE SHOT
text: Barton weeping, alone on the bed, next to the rust-colored
dialog: stain.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: BATHING BEAUTY
text: With the fade in, the sound of the surf mixes up.
text: We pan down the picture to discover that a snapshot has been
text: tucked into a corner of the picture frame: it is the snap of
text: Charlie, smiling and waving, with his foot up on the running
text: board of the 1939 Ford roadster.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Sitting at the desk, staring at the picture. From his glazed
text: eyes and the way his mouth hangs open, we may assume he has
text: been staring at the picture for some time.
text: He notices something on the desk and picks it up.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The Holy Bible – Placed by the Gideons.
text: Barton opens it, randomly, to the Book of Daniel. The text
text: is set in ornately Gothic type.
dialog: "5. And the king, Nebuchadnezzar, answered and said to the
dialog: Chaldeans, I recall not my dream; if ye will not make known
dialog: unto me my dream, and its interpretation, ye shall be cut in
dialog: pieces, and of your tents shall be made a dunghill."
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Staring at the passage. His mouth hangs open.
speaker_heading: THE BIBLE
text: Barton riffles to the first page.
text: In bold type at the top:
text: "THE BOOK OF GENESIS"
text: Underneath, in the same ornately Gothic type:
text: "Chapter One 1. Fade in on a tenement building on Manhattan's
text: Lower East Side. Faint traffic noise is audible; 2. As is
text: the cry of fishmongers."
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Squinting at the page through bloodshot eyes.
text: His mouth hangs open.
scene_heading: BARTON'S ROOM – DAY
text: At the cut the harsh clackety-clack of typing bangs in.
text: Sunlight burns against the sheers of Barton's window, making
text: it a painfully bright patch in the room which itself remains
text: fairly dim.
text: Barton sits at the secretary, typing furiously.
text: He finishes a page, yanks it out of the carriage, and places
text: it face-down on a short stack of face-down pages.
text: He feeds in a blank sheet and resumes his rapid typing. He
text: is sweating, unshaven, and more haggard even than when we
dialog: left him the previous night.
text: The telephone rings. After several rings Barton stops typing
text: and answers it, absently, still looking at his work. His
text: voice is hoarse.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Hello... Chet... Who?...
text: He puts the receiver down on the desk, leans over the
text: typewriter, and examines something he has just written.
text: He picks the phone back up and listens for a beat.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ... No, don't send them up here.
dialog: I'll be right down.
speaker_heading: ELEVATOR
text: A small oscillating fan whirs up in a corner of the elevator.
text: We pan down to Barton, who is riding down with Pete, the old
text: elevator operator. Barton's voice is hoarse with fatigue.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...You read the Bible, Pete?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Holy Bible?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: I think so... Anyway, I've heard
dialog: about it.
text: Barton nods.
text: They ride for a beat.
speaker_heading: LOBBY
text: Late afternoon sun slants in from one side. The lobby has
text: the same golden ambiance as when first we saw it.
text: Barton is walking toward two wing chairs in the shadows,
text: from which two men in suits are rising. One is tall, the
dialog: other short.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: Fink?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN #2
dialog: Detective Mastrionotti.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN #1
dialog: Detective Deutsch.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: L.A.P.D.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Uh-huh.
text: All three sit in ancient maroon swing chairs. Mastrionotti
text: perches on the edge of his chair; Deutsch slumps back in the
text: shadows, studying Barton.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Got a couple questions to ask ya.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: What do you do, Fink?
dialog: Still hoarse:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I write.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Oh yeah? What kind of write?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well as a matter of fact, I write
dialog: for the pictures.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Big fuckin' deal.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: You want my partner to kiss your
dialog: ass?
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Would that be good enough for ya?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: No, I – I didn't mean to sound –
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: What DID you mean?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I – I've got respect for – for working
dialog: guys, like you –
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Jesus! Ain't that a load off! You
dialog: live in 605?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: How long you been up there, Fink?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: A week, eight, nine days –
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Is this multiple choice?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Nine days – Tuesday –
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: You know this slob?
text: He is holding a small black-and-white photograph out toward
dialog: Barton.
text: There is a long beat as Barton studies the picture.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Yeah, he... he lives next door to
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: That's right, Fink, he lives next
dialog: door to you.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Ever talk to him?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Once or twice. His name is Charlie
dialog: Meadows.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Yeah, and I'm Buck Rogers.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
text: His name is Mundt. Karl Mundt.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Also known as Madman Mundt.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
text: He's a little funny in the head.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What did... What did he –
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Funny. As in, he likes to ventilate
text: people with a shotgun and then cut
text: their heads off.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Yeah, he's funny that way.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I...
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Started in Kansas City. Couple of
dialog: housewives.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Couple of days ago we see the same
text: M.O. out in Los Feliz.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
text: Doctor. Ear, nose and throat man,.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: All of which he's now missin'.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Well, some of his throat was there.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Physician, heal thyself.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Good luck with no fuckin' head.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Anyway.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
text: Hollywood precinct finds another
dialog: stiff yesterday. Not too far from
dialog: here. This one's better looking than
dialog: the doc.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
text: Female caucasian, thirty years old.
dialog: Nice tits. No head. You ever see
dialog: Mundt with anyone meets that
dialog: description?
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: But, you know, with the head still
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...No. I never saw him with anyone
dialog: else.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: So. You talked to Mundt, what about?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Nothing, really. Said he was in the
dialog: insurance business.
text: Deutsch indicates Mastrionotti.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Yeah, and he's Buck Rogers.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: No reputable company would hire a
dialog: guy like that.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Well that's what he said.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: What else?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: He... I'm trying to think... Nothing,
dialog: really... He... He said he liked
dialog: Jack Oakie pictures.
text: Mastrionotti looks at Deutsch. Deutsch looks at Mastrionotti.
text: After a beat, Mastrionotti looks back at Barton.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Ya know, Fink, ordinarily we say
dialog: anything you might remember could be
dialog: helpful. But I'll be frank with you:
dialog: That is not helpful.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Ya see how he's not writing it down?
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Fink. That's a Jewish name, isn't
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah.
text: Mastrionotti gets to his feet, looking around the lobby.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Yeah, I didn't think this dump was
dialog: restricted.
text: He digs in his pocket.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: ...Mundt has disappeared. I don't
dialog: think he'll be back. But...
text: He hands Barton a card.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: ...give me a call if you see him. Or
dialog: if you remember something that isn't
dialog: totally idiotic.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S ROOM
text: We are tracking toward the paper-wrapped parcel that sits on
text: the nightstand next to Barton's bed.
text: Barton enters and picks it up. He holds it for a beat, looking
text: at it, then brings it over to the secretary and sits.
text: He shakes it.
text: No sound; whatever is inside is well packed.
text: Barton holds it up to his ear and listens for a long beat,
text: as if it were a seashell and he is listening for the surf.
text: Finally he puts it on his desk, beneath the picture of the
text: bathing beauty, and starts typing, quickly and steadily.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: THROUGH TO:
speaker_heading: REVERSE
text: Some time later; Barton still types. He is face to us; beyond
text: him we can see the bed with its rust-colored stain.
text: The phone rings. Barton ignores it. It continues to ring.
text: Barton rises and exits frame; we hold on to the bed in the
text: background. We hear Barton's footsteps on the bathroom tile
text: as the phone continues ringing.
text: Barton sits back into frame stuffing cotton into each ear.
text: He resumes typing.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: Barton typing. The desk trembles under the working of the
text: typewriter. Charlie's parcel chatters.
text: Barton takes a finished page out of the carriage and places
text: it face down on the growing stack to his right. He feeds in
text: a new page. We hear the muted ding of the elevator down the
text: hall. Barton resumes typing.
text: We hear a knock on Barton's door. Barton does not react,
text: apparently not hearing.
speaker_heading: THE DOORWAY
text: We are close on the bottom of the door. Someone in the hallway
text: is sliding a note beneath the door; then his shadow disappears
text: and his footsteps recede.
text: The note is a printed message headed: "While You Were Out...
dialog: " Underneath are the printed words: "You were called by"
text: and, handwritten in the space following: "Mr. Ben Geisler."
text: Handwritten below, in the message space:
dialog: "Thank you. Lipnik loved your meeting. Keep up the good work."
text: Barton's offscreen typing continues steadily.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: HALLWAY
text: A perfectly symmetrical wide low angle shot of the empty
text: hall. Shoes are set put in front of each door except for
text: one in the middle background.
text: At the cut in we hear faint, regular typing.
text: We hold for a beat. There is no motion. The long, empty hall.
text: The distant typing.
dialog: We hold.
text: The typing stops. There is a beat of quiet.
text: It is broken by the sound of a door opening. It is the
text: shoeless door in the middle background.
text: A hand reaches out to place a pair of shoes in the doorway.
text: The hand withdraws.
text: The door closes.
text: A short beat of silence.
text: The distant typing resumes.
text: The long empty hall. The distant typing.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
scene_heading: OVER THE BLACK
text: We hear the distant sound of a woman's voice, tinny and
text: indistinct.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Just a minute and I'll connect you...
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: CLOSE ON BARTON
text: His eyes are red-rimmed and wild. He sits on the edge of his
text: bed holding the phone to his ear.
text: His voice is unnaturally loud:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Hello? Operator! I can't... Oh!
text: He stops, reaches up, takes a cotton wad out of his ear.
text: We hear various clicks and clacks as the telephone lines
text: switch, and then a distant ring. The phone rings three or
text: four times before it is answered by a groggy voice.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: ...Hello.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Garland, it's me.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Barton? What time is it? Are you all
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yeah, I'm fine, Garland – I have to
dialog: talk to you. I'm calling long
dialog: distance.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Okay.
text: Muffled, we hear Garland speaking to someone else.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
text: ...It's Barton. Calling long distance.
text: Back into the receiver:
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: ...What is it Barton? Are you okay?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm fine, garland, but I have to
dialog: talk with you.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Go ahead, son.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: It's about what I'm writing, Garland.
dialog: It's really... I think it's really
dialog: big.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: What do you mean, Barton?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Not big in the sense of large –
dialog: although it's that too. I mean
dialog: important. This may be the most
dialog: IMPORTANT work I've done.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Well, I'm... glad to hear that –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Very important, Garland. I just
dialog: thought you should know that. Whatever
dialog: happens.
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: ...That's fine.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Have you read the Bible, Garland?
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: ...Barton, is everything okay?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yes... Isn't it?
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Well, I'm just asking. You sound a
dialog: little –
dialog: Guardedly:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Sound a little what?
speaker_heading: GARLAND
dialog: Well, you just... sound a little–
dialog: Bitterly:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Thanks, Garland. Thanks for all the
dialog: encouragement.
text: He slams down the phone.
scene_heading: OVER HIS SHOULDER
text: A one-quarter shot on Barton from behind as he picks up the
text: cotton wad and sticks it back in his right ear.
text: He resumes typing, furiously.
text: After a beat he mutters, still typing.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...Nitwit.
scene_heading: THE BATHING BEAUTY
text: Later. We hear typing and the roar of the surf.'
scene_heading: CLOSE ON TYPEWRITER
text: We are extremely close on the key-strike area. As we cut in
dialog: Barton is typing:
scene_heading: "p-o-s-t-c-a-r-d-."
text: The carriage returns a couple of times and "T-H-E–E-N-D" is
dialog: typed in.
text: The paper is ripped out of the carriage.
text: CLOSE ON A STACK OF PAGES
text: Lying face down on the desk; the last page is added, face
text: down, to the pile. The pile is picked up, its edges are
text: straightened with a couple of thumps against the desktop,
text: and then the pile is replaced on the desk, face up. The
dialog: title page reads:
scene_heading: "THE BURLYMAN
dialog: Motion Picture Scenario
dialog: By
dialog: Barton Fink"
text: Barton's right hand enters frame to deposit a small cotton
text: wad on top of the script.
text: Barton's left hand enters to deposit another small cotton
text: wad on top of the script.
text: We hear Barton walk away. We hear bath water run.
scene_heading: THE BATHING BEAUTY
text: Still looking out to sea.
speaker_heading: USO HALL
text: We are booming down to the dance floor as a raucous band
text: plays an up-tempo number.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Dancing animatedly, almost maniacally, his fingers jabbing
dialog: the air.
text: The hall is crowded, but Barton is one of few men not in
dialog: uniform.
speaker_heading: USO GIRL
text: Giggling, dancing opposite Barton.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: You're cute!
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Caught up in his dancing, oblivious to the girl.
text: A white uniformed arm reaches in to tap Barton on the
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: SAILOR
dialog: 'Scuse me, buddy, mind if I cut in?
text: Barton glares at him.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: This is MY dance, sailor!
speaker_heading: SAILOR
dialog: C'mon buddy, I'm shipping out
dialog: tomorrow.
text: For some reason, Barton is angry.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm a writer! Celebrating the
dialog: completion of something GOOD! Do
dialog: you understand that, sailor? I'm a
dialog: WRITER!
text: His bellowing has drawn onlookers' attention.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: Step aside, four-eyes! Let someone
dialog: else spin the dame! Give the navy a
dialog: dance! Hey, Four-F, take a hike!
text: Barton turns furiously against the crowd.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm a writer, you monsters! I CREATE!
text: He points at his head.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...This is my uniform!
text: He taps his skull.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...THIS is how I serve the common
dialog: man! THIS is where I –
text: WHAPP! An infantry man tags Barton's chin on the button.
text: Bodies surge. The crowd gasps. The band blares nightmarishly
dialog: on.
scene_heading: HOTEL HALLWAY
text: Quiet at the cut.
text: After a beat, there is a faint ding at the end of the hall
text: and, as the elevator door opens, we faintly hear:
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: This stop: six.
text: Barton, disheveled, emerges and stumbles wearily down the
text: hall. He stops in front of his door, takes his key out, and
text: enters the room.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S POV
text: Mastrionotti is sitting on the edge of the bed reading
dialog: Barton's manuscript.
text: Deutsch stands in front of the desk staring at the bathing
dialog: beauty.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Mother: What is to become of him.
dialog: Father: We'll be hearing from that
dialog: crazy wrestler. And I don't mean a
text: postcard. Fade out. The end.
text: He looks up at Barton.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: ...I thought you said you were a
dialog: writer.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: I dunno, Duke. I kinda liked it.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Keep your filthy eyes off that.
text: Deutsch turns toward Barton and throws a folded newspaper at
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: You made morning papers, Fink.
text: Barton opens the paper. A headline reads: Writer Found
text: Headless in Chavez Ravine. The story has two pictures – a
text: studio publicity portrait of Mayhew, and a photograph of the
text: crime scene: two plainclothes detectives stare down into a
text: gulley as a uniformed cop restrains a pair of leashed dogs.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Second one of your friends to end up
dialog: dead.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: You didn't tell us you knew the dame.
text: With a jerk of his thumb, Mastrionotti indicates the
text: bloodstained bed.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Sixth floor too high for you, Fink?
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Give you nose bleeds?
text: Barton crosses the room and sits at the foot of the bed,
text: staring at the newspaper.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Just tell me one thing, Fink: Where'd
dialog: you put their heads?
dialog: Distractedly:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Charlie... Charlie's back...
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: No kidding, bright boy – we smelt
dialog: Mundt all over this. Was he the idea
dialog: man?
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Tell us where the heads are, maybe
dialog: they'll go easy on you.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Only fry you once.
text: Barton rubs his temples.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Could you come back later? It's
dialog: just... too hot... My head is killing
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: All right, forget the heads. Where's
dialog: Mundt, Fink?
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: He teach you to do it?
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: You two have some sick sex thing?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Sex?! He's a MAN! We WRESTLED!
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: You're a sick fuck, Fink.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: All right, moron, you're under arrest.
text: Barton seems oblivious to the two men.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Charlie's back. It's hot... He's
dialog: back.
text: Down the hall we hear the ding of the arriving elevator.
text: Mastrionotti cocks his head with a quizzical look.
text: He rises and walks slowly out into the hall. Deutsch wathces
dialog: him go.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Mastrionotti in the hallway in full shot, framed by the door,
text: still looking puzzled.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: ...Fred...
text: Deutsch stands and pushes his suit coat back past the gun on
text: his hip, revealing a pair of handcuffs on his belt. He
text: unhitches the cuffs and slips one around Barton's right wrist
text: and the other around a loop in the wrought iron footboard of
dialog: the bed.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Sit tight, Fink.
scene_heading: THE HALLWAY
text: As Deutsch joins Mastrionotti.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: Why's it so goddamn hot out here?
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: ...Fred...
text: Deutsch looks where Mastrionotti is looking.
speaker_heading: THE WALL
text: Tacky yellow fluid streams down. The walls are pouring sweat.
text: The hallway is quiet.
scene_heading: MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH
text: They look at each other. They look down the hall.
speaker_heading: THEIR POV
text: The elevator stands open at the far end of the empty hall.
text: For a long beat, nothing.
text: Finally Pete, the elevator man, emerges.
text: At this distance, he is a small figure, stumbling this way
text: and that, his hands presseed against the sides of his head.
text: He turns to face Mastrionotti and Deutsch and takes a few
text: steps forward, still clutching his head.
scene_heading: MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH
dialog: Watching.
speaker_heading: PETE
text: He takes on last step, then collapses.
text: As he pitches forward his hands fall away from his head. His
text: head separates from his neck, hits the floor, and rolls away
text: from his body with a dull irregular trundle sound.
scene_heading: MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH
text: Wide-eyed, they look at each other, then back down the hall.
text: All is quiet.
scene_heading: THE HALLWAY
text: Smoke is beginning to drift into the far end of the hall.
text: We hear a muted rumble.
scene_heading: MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH
text: Mastrionotti tugs at his tie. He slowly unholsters his gun.
text: Deutsch slowly, hypnotically, follows suit.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: ... Show yourself, Mundt!
text: More quiet.
scene_heading: THE HALLWAY
text: More smoke.
scene_heading: LOW STEEP ANGLE ON ELEVATOR DOOR
text: The crack where the floor of the elevator meets that of the
dialog: hall.
text: It flickers with red light from below. Bottom-lit smoke sifts
dialog: up.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON MASTRIONOTTI
text: Standing in the foreground, gun at ready. Sweat pours down
text: his face.
text: Behind him, Deutsch stands nervously in the light-spill from
text: Barton's doorway.
text: The rumble and crackle of fire grows louder.
scene_heading: THE HALLWAY
text: More smoke.
scene_heading: PATCH OF WALL
text: Sweating.
text: A swath of wallpaper sags away from the top of the wall,
text: exposing glistening lath underneath.
text: With a light airy pop, the lathwork catches on fire.
scene_heading: MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH
text: Sweating.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
dialog: ...Mundt!
speaker_heading: THEIR POV
text: The hallway. Its end-facing-wall slowly spreads flame from
text: where the wallpaper droops.
scene_heading: LOW STEEP ANGLE ON ELEVATOR DOOR
text: More red bottom-lit smoke seeps up from the crack between
text: elevator and hallway floors.
text: With a groan of tension relieved cables and a swaying of the
text: elevator door, a pair of feet crosses the threshold into the
dialog: doorway.
speaker_heading: JUMPING BACK
text: Wide on the hallway. Charlie Meadows has emerged from the
text: elevator and is hellishly backlit by the flame.
text: His suit coat hangs open. His hat is pushed back on his head.
text: From his right hand his briefcase dangles.
text: He stands motionless, facing us. There is something monumental
text: in his posture, shoulders thrown back.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
text: Tensed. Behind him, Deutsch gulps.
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: There's a boy, Mundt. Put the policy
dialog: case down and your mitts in the air.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
text: He leans slowly down to put the briefcase on the floor.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON MASTRIONOTTI
dialog: Relax. He murmurs:
speaker_heading: MASTRIONOTTI
text: He's complying.
text: BACK TO CHARLIE
text: He straightens up from the briefcase, a sawed-off shotgun in
text: his hands.
text: BOOM! The shotgun spits fire.
text: Mastrionotti's face is peppered by buckshot and he is blown
text: back down the hallway into Deutsch.
text: Bellowing fills the hallway over the roar of the fire:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
text: LOOK UPON ME! LOOK UPON ME! I'LL
dialog: SHOW YOU THE LIFE OF THE MIND!!
scene_heading: THE HALLWAY
text: The fire starts racing down the hallway.
text: CLOSE STEEP ANGLE ON PATCH OF WALL
text: Fire races along the wall-sweat goopus.
text: TRACK IN ON DEUTSCH
text: His eyes widen at Charlie and the approaching fire; his gun
text: dangles forgotten from his right hand.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Charlie is charging down the hallway, holding his shotgun
text: loosely in front of his chest, in double-time position. The
text: fire races along with him.
text: He is bellowing:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
text: LOOK UPON ME! I'LL SHOW YOU THE LIFE
text: OF THE MIND! I'LL SHOW YOU THE LIFE
dialog: OF THE MIND!
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
text: Terrified, he turns and runs.
scene_heading: REVERSE PULLING DEUTSCH
text: As he runs down the flaming hallway, pursued by flames, smoke,
text: and Karl Mundt – who, also on the run, levels his shotgun.
speaker_heading: BOOM!
scene_heading: PUSHING DEUTSCH
text: His legs and feet spout blood, paddle futilely at the air,
text: then come down in a twisting wobble, like a car on blown
text: tires, and pitch him helplessly to the floor.
scene_heading: PULLING CHARLIE
text: He slows to a trot and cracks open the shotgun.
scene_heading: PUSHING DEUTSCH
text: Weeping and dragging himself forward on his elbows.
scene_heading: PULLING CHARLIE
text: He slows to a walk.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S ROOM
text: Barton strains at his handcuffs.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Through the open doorway we see Charlie pass, pushing two
text: shells into his shotgun.
scene_heading: PULLING DEUTSCH
text: Charlie looms behind him and – THWACK – snaps the shotgun
dialog: closed.
text: Deutsch rolls over to rest on his elbows, facing Charlie.
text: Charlie primes the shotgun – CLACK.
text: He presses both barrels against the bridge of Deutsh's nose.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Heil Hitler.
speaker_heading: DEUTSCH
text: Screams.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
text: Tightens a finger over both triggers. He squeezes.
speaker_heading: BLAM!
text: TRACK IN ON BARTON
text: He flinches.
text: The gunshot echoes away.
text: Barton strains at the handcuffs.
text: We hear Charlie's footsteps approach – slowly, heavily.
speaker_heading: THE DOORWAY
text: Charlie, walking down the hall, glances in and seems mildly
text: surprised to see Barton. The set of his jaw relaxes. His
text: expression softens. He pushes his hat farther back on his
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Barton!
text: He shakes is head and whistles.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Brother, is it hot.
text: He walks into the room.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S ROOM
text: As Charlie wearily enters.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: How you been, buddy?
text: He props the shotgun in a corner and sits facing Barton, who
text: stared at him.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Don't look at me like that,
dialog: neighbor. It's just me – Charlie.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I hear it's Mundt. Madman Mundt.
text: Charlie reaches a flask from his pocket.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Jesus, people can be cruel...
text: He takes a long draught from his flask, then gives a haunted
dialog: stare.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...if it's not my build, it's my
dialog: personality.
text: Charlie is perspiring heavily. The fire rumbles in the
dialog: hallway.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...They say I'm a madman, Barton,
dialog: but I'm not mad at anyone. Honest
dialog: I'm not. Most guys I just feel sorry
dialog: for. Yeah. It tears me up inside, to
dialog: think about what they're going
dialog: through. How trapped they are. I
dialog: understand it. I feel for 'em. So I
dialog: try and help them out...
text: He reached up to loosen his tie and pop his collar button.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Jesus. Yeah. I know what it feels
dialog: like, when things get all balled up
dialog: at the head office. It puts you
dialog: through hell, Barton. So I help people
dialog: out. I just wish someone would do as
dialog: much for me...
text: He stares miserably down at his feet.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Jesus it's hot. Sometimes it gets
dialog: so hot, I wanna crawl right out of
dialog: my skin.
dialog: Self-pity:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: But Charlie – why me? Why –
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Because you DON'T LISTEN!
text: A tacky yellow fluid is dripping from Charlie's left ear and
text: running down his cheek.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Jesus, I'm dripping again.
text: He pulls some cotton from his pocket and plugs his ear.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...C'mon Barton, you think you know
dialog: about pain? You think I made your
dialog: life hell? Take a look around this
dialog: dump. You're just a tourist with a
dialog: typewriter, Barton. I live here.
dialog: Don't you understand that...
text: His voice is becoming choked.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...And you come into MY home... And
dialog: you complain that I'M making too...
dialog: much... noise.
text: He looks up at Barton.
text: There is a long silence.
dialog: Finally:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...I'm sorry.
dialog: Wearily:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Don't be.
text: He rises to his feet and kneels in front of Barton at the
text: foot of the bed.
text: The two men regard each other.
text: Charlie grabs two bars of the footboard frame, still staring
text: at Barton. His muscles tighten, though nothing moves. His
text: neck fans with effort. All of his muscles tense. His face
text: is a reddening grimace.
text: With a shriek of protest, the metal gives. The bar to which
text: Barton is handcuffed had come loose at the top and Barton
text: slides the cuff off it, free.
text: Charlie gets to his feet.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
text: I'm getting off the merry-go-round.
text: He takes his shotgun and walks to the door.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...I'll be next door if you need me.
text: A thought stops him at the door and he turns to face Barton.
text: Behind him the hallway blazes.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Oh, I dropped in on your folks.
dialog: And Uncle Dave?
text: He smiles. Barton looks at him dumbly.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ...Good people. By the way, that
dialog: package I gave you? I lied. It isn't
dialog: mine.
text: He leaves.
text: Barton rises, picks up Charlie's parcel, and his script.
scene_heading: THE HALLWAY
text: As Barton emerges. Flames lick the walls, causing the
text: wallpaper to run with the tack glue sap. Smoke fills the
text: hallway. Barton looks down the hall.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Charlie stands in front of the door to his room, his briefcase
text: dangling from one hand, his other hand fumbling in his pocket
dialog: for his key.
text: With his hat pushed back on his head and his shoulders slumped
dialog: with fatigue, he could be any drummer returning to any hotel
text: after a long hard day on the road.
text: He opens the door and goes into his room.
text: BACK TO BARTON
text: He turns and walks up the hallway, his script in one hand,
text: the parcel in the other.
text: A horrible moaning sound – almost human – can be heard under
text: the roar of the fire.
speaker_heading: BLACKNESS
scene_heading: STUDIO HALLWAY
text: We are tracking laterally across the lobby of an executive
text: building. From offscreen we hear:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Fink! Morris or Lillian Fink! Eighty-
dialog: five Fulton Street!
text: Filtered through phone:
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: I understand that, sir –
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Or Uncle Dave!
text: Our track has brought Barton into frame in the foreground,
text: unshaven, unkempt, bellowing into the telephone. In a hallway
text: in the background, a secretary gestures for Barton to hurry
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: I understand that, sir, but there's
dialog: still no answer. Shall I check for
dialog: trouble on the line?
text: Barton slams down the phone.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK'S OFFICE
text: Barton enters, still clinging on to Charlie's parcel.
text: Lou Breeze stands in one corner censoriously watching Barton.
text: Lipnik is at the far end of the room, gazing out the window.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Fink.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Mr. Lipnik.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Colonel Lipnik, if you don't mind.
text: He turns to face Barton and we see that he is wearing a
text: smartly pressed uniform with a lot of fruit salad on the
dialog: chest.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...Siddown.
text: Barton takes a seat facing Lipnik's desk.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...I was commissioned yesterday in
dialog: the Army Reserve. Henry Morgenthau
dialog: arranged it. He's a dear friend.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Congratulations.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Actually it hasn't officially gone
dialog: through yet. Had wardrobe whip this
dialog: up. You gotta pull teeth to get
dialog: anything done in this town. I can
dialog: understand a little red tape in
text: peacetime, but now it's all-out
text: warfare against the Japs. Little
dialog: yellow bastards. They'd love to see
dialog: me sit this one out.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yes sir, they –
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Anyway, I had Lou read your script
dialog: for me.
text: He taps distastefully at the script on his desk, which has a
text: slightly charred title page.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: ...I gotta tell you, Fink. It won't
dialog: wash.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: With all due respect, sir, I think
dialog: it's the best work I've done.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Don't gas me, Fink. If you're opinion
dialog: mattered, then I guess I'd resign
dialog: and let YOU run the the studio. It
dialog: doesn't and you won't, and the
dialog: lunatics are not going to run THIS
dialog: particular asylum. So let's put a
dialog: stop to THAT rumor right now.
dialog: Listlessly:
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: I had to call Beery this morning,
dialog: let him know we were pushing the
dialog: picture back. After all I'd told
dialog: him about quality, about that Barton
dialog: Fink feeling. How disappointed we
text: were. Wally was heartbroken. The man
dialog: was devastated. He was – well, I
dialog: didn't actually call him, Lou did.
dialog: But that's a fair description, isn't
dialog: it Lou?
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Yes, Colonel.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Hell, I could take you through it
dialog: step by step, explain why your story
dialog: stinks, but I won't insult your
dialog: intelligence. Well all right, first
dialog: of all: This is a wrestling picture;
dialog: the audience wants to see action,
text: drama, wrestling, and plenty of it.
dialog: They don't wanna see a guy wrestling
dialog: with his soul – well, all right, a
dialog: little bit, for the critics – but
dialog: you make it the carrot that wags the
text: dog. Too much of it and they head
dialog: for exits and I don't blame 'em.
dialog: There's plenty of poetry right inside
dialog: that ring, Fink. Look at "Hell Ten
dialog: Feet Square".
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: "Blood, Sweat, and Canvas".
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: Look at "Blood, Sweat, and Canvas".
dialog: These are big movies, Fink. About
text: big men, in tights – both physically
dialog: and mentally. But especially
dialog: physically. We don't put Wallace
dialog: Beery in some fruity movie about
dialog: suffering – I thought we were together
dialog: on that.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I'm sorry if I let you down.
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: You didn't let ME down. Or even Lou.
dialog: We don't live or die by what you
dialog: scribble, Fink. You let Ben Geisler
dialog: down. He liked you. Trusted you. And
dialog: that's why he's gone. Fired. That
dialog: guy had a heart as big as the
dialog: outdoors, and you fucked him. He
dialog: tried to convince me to fire you
dialog: too, but that would be too easy. No,
dialog: you're under contract and you're
dialog: gonna stay that way. Anything you
dialog: write will be the property of Capitol
dialog: Pictures. And Capitol Pictures will
dialog: not produce anything you write. Not
dialog: until you grow up a little. You ain't
dialog: no writer, Fink – you're a goddamn
dialog: write-off.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I tried to show you something
dialog: beautiful. Something about all of
speaker_heading: US –
text: This sets Lipnik off:
speaker_heading: LIPNIK
dialog: You arrogant sonofabitch! You think
dialog: you're the only writer who can give
dialog: me that Barton Fink feeling?! I got
dialog: twenty writers under contract that I
dialog: can ask for a Finktype thing from.
dialog: You swell-headed hypocrite! You
dialog: just don't get it, do you? You think
dialog: the whole world revolves inside
text: whatever rattles inside that little
dialog: kike head of yours. Get him outta my
dialog: sight, Lou. Make sure he stays in
dialog: town, though; he's still under
dialog: contract. I want you in town, Fink,
dialog: and outta my sight. Now get lost.
text: There's a war on.
speaker_heading: THE SURF
text: Crashing against the Pacific shore.
speaker_heading: THE BEACH
text: At midday, almost deserted. In the distance we see Barton
dialog: walking.
text: The paper-wrapped parcel swings from the twine in his left
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He walks a few more paces and sits down on the sand, looking
text: out to see. His gaze shifts to one side.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Down the beach, a bathing beauty walks along the edge of the
text: water. She looks much like the picture on the wall in Barton's
dialog: hotel room.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: He stares, transfixed, at the woman.
speaker_heading: THE WOMAN
text: Very beautiful, backlit by the sun, approaching.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: Following her with his eyes.
speaker_heading: THE WOMAN
text: Her eyes meet Barton's. She says something, but her voice is
text: lost in the crash of the surf.
text: Barton cups a hand to his ear.
speaker_heading: BEAUTY
dialog: I said it's a beautiful day...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Yes... It is...
speaker_heading: BEAUTY
dialog: What's in the box?
text: Barton shrugs and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: BEAUTY
dialog: Isn't it yours?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: I... I don't know...
text: She nods and sits down on the sand several paces away from
text: him, facing the water but looking back over her shoulder at
dialog: Barton.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...You're very beautiful. Are you in
dialog: pictures?
text: She laughs.
speaker_heading: BEAUTY
dialog: Don't be silly.
text: She turns away to look out at the sea.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Facing the ocean. Barton sits in the middle foreground, back
text: to us, the box in the sand next to him.
text: The bathing beauty sits, back to us, in the middle background.
text: The surf pounds.
text: The sun sparkles off the water.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
