speaker_heading: BLACK
text: We HEAR "Waltzing Matilde," by Tom Waits.
scene_heading: INT. MUSEUM OF MODERN ART - DAY (DREAM SEQUENCE IN GRAINY BLACK
speaker_heading: AND WHITE)
text: Fade out music.
dialog: Silence.
text: A well-dressed black BOY and his MOTHER walk through several
dialog: galleries.
text: They stand before Picasso's "Guernica," holding hands.
text: The mother is disturbed. Crying.
text: The boy looks up, confused and frightened, concerned to see his
text: mother crying in public. She looks at him tenderly.
text: Her brow furrows. She stops crying. She stares just above his
dialog: eyes.
text: Something's happening: she looks with wonder at the top of his
text: head... his eyes roll upward, trying to see - it's a crown!
text: He raises his hands. He touches it.
text: A beam of light illuminates the crown, casting its glow on his
text: mother's face.
text: The beam gets whiter, the rest of the screen gets black.
scene_heading: INT. CARDBOARD BOX
text: Silence. In darkness, we hear a VOICE - imbued with a sense of
dialog: its own history:
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Everybody wants to get on the Van Gogh
dialog: boat. There's no trip so horrible that
dialog: someone won't take it. The idea of the
text: unrecognized genius slaving away in a
dialog: garret is a deliciously foolish one. We
dialog: must credit the life of Vincent Van Gogh
dialog: for really sending this myth into orbit.
dialog: How many pictures did he sell? One? He
dialog: couldn't give them away. We are so ashamed
dialog: of his life that the rest of art history
dialog: will be retribution for Van Gogh's neglect.
dialog: No one wants to be part of a generation
text: that ignores another Van Gogh.
text: The beam of light shines through a small hole. It falls upon a
text: sleeping, dreaming, delighted face. It belongs to JEAN MICHEL
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT.
text: OUTDOOR, DAYTIME SOUNDS filter in.
text: Hearing the voice, Jean frowns at being woken up.
scene_heading: EXT. TOMPKINS SQUARE PARK - DAY
text: A long, rectangular cardboard box.
scene_heading: SUPER: "NEW YORK CITY"
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON:
text: RENE RICARD (early 30's), seated at a park bench, hunched over a
text: notebook. He's a raggedy dandy: A poet in a hooded sweatshirt and
text: white hightops.
text: As he writes, he reads aloud, as if addressing Posterity.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: (sighing theatrically)
dialog: In this town one is at the mercy of the
dialog: recognition factor. One's public
dialog: appearance is absolute.
text: Beyond him, a HAND gropes its way out of the box. It tosses a can
text: of YOOHOO chocolate drink.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: I consider myself a metaphor of the public.
dialog: I am a public eye. I am a witness.
text: A HEAD appears from the box. It's Jean's.
text: Jean sees the start of a crisp, colorful autumn day. The urban
text: park around him is alive with a typically full range of the good
text: and bad in life. He eases himself out of the oversize box in
text: which he has spent the night. There's something about the way
text: that he stands while waking up that suggests he's almost
text: surprised at his own body, the adultness of his limbs - just a
text: subtle hint of him coming out of a dream.
text: He squints in the sunlight. He has a soft, gentle, Haitian face.
text: His hair is pulled tight to his head. He wears two pairs of blue
text: jeans (one cut like chaps over the other) a paint-covered
text: Wesleyan University T-shirt, and the inside lining of an
text: overcoat. His appearance is unruly, but it's deliberate. He's
dialog: stylish.
text: He shakes himself off and collects his stuff, which includes: a
text: small book of Pontormo drawings, a can of black spray paint. and
text: a cigar box made into a loudspeaker with pencil holes and masking
dialog: tape.
text: Jean walks out of the park and looks up past the buildings at the
dialog: sky:
text: SUPERIMPOSED IN THE SKY - STOCK FOOTAGE OF A HAWAIIAN SURFER
text: Jean sees the surfer, 'riding the nose' in glistening, shimmering
dialog: sunlight.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TOMPKINS SQUARE PARK - DAY
text: Rene grabs the box for use as a desk and continues to speak out
text: loud as he writes.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D, O.S.)
dialog: Part of the artist's job is to get the work
dialog: where I will see it.
scene_heading: EXT. LOWER EAST SIDE ST. - DAY
text: As he speaks, we see Jean pass the wall of a funeral parlor. He
text: spraypaints: "SAMO AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO GOD"
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D, O.S.)
dialog: When you first see a new picture, you don't
dialog: want to miss the boat. You have to be very
dialog: careful because you may be staring at Van
text: Gogh's ear.
text: Jean signs his words with his 'logo', a triple pointed crown.
text: As he presses the spray can, we HEAR the roar of a breaker.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSERT: CLOSEUP OF SIDEWALK
text: Pressed into the concrete is a pair of EYEGLASSES. A light-
text: colored piece of rock completes the picture to make a face.
scene_heading: EXT. LESHKO'S RESTAURANT - DAY
text: JEAN'S POV: His shoes pause next to the face in the concrete.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: IN FRONT OF THE RESTAURANT
text: Is a METAL BILLBOARD with red plastic magnetized LETTERS that
text: reads: "TODAY'S SPECIAL: CLAM CHOWDER $1.50. TRY IT!!!"
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LESHKO'S - DAY
text: Jean enters.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. LESHKO'S RESTAURANT - DAY
text: The sign. It now reads: "SAMO'S DAY OLD TEETH $5.00"
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LESHKO'S RESTAURANT - DAY
text: Bending over a countertop, we see GINA CARDINALE, 22. He fixates
text: on her.
text: She looks up and notices his stare. She continues to work.
text: Still staring at her, he sits down at a table. He pours maple
text: syrup onto the table. He draws in the syrup with his fingers.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON SYRUP ON TABLE
text: ANOTHER WAITRESS arrives at his table. She's put off by the
dialog: syrup.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: What'll it be?
text: Jean thinks about it, eyes still following Gina.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Ummm. It'll be great. We'll live together
dialog: in peace. What's her name?
dialog: (indicates Gina)
text: He looks up at the waitress.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Gina. What'll it be?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Pancakes.
text: She leaves and whispers something to Gina. Gina turns and glances
text: over at Jean.
text: Jean pours more syrup and starts writing his name.
text: At the grill, LESHKO, the burly Owner/Cook, has his watchful eye
text: on Jean. He doesn't like what he sees.
text: Jean smears the syrup thinly, so it doesn't erase itself. He
text: draws a picture of Gina, using his fingers and the silverware,
text: rendering her last expression strikingly with a few quick lines.
text: A GAUNT YOUNG MAN saunters up to Jean's table. He's sort of a
text: tall Puerto Rican Alain Delon with sleepy eyes. He is BENNY.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Hey - Willie Mays.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Willie Mays.
text: Suddenly, Rene Ricard enters - a one-man parade. He beckons to
text: Gina, snapping his fingers.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Nurse!!! Oh!!! Nurse!!! Carrot juice. Tofu
dialog: burger. Rapido!
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: We don't serve that - amigo.
speaker_heading: RENE
text: Fine... A greasy cheeseburger. Fries - and
dialog: a vodka.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: Who's that?
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: The Devil, man. Rene Ricard. Art critic -
dialog: writes for Artforum. People read him. Tell
dialog: him who you are..
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Who am I?
speaker_heading: BENNY
speaker_heading: SAMO.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Oh yeah..
text: Rene lands at the counter.
text: Jean's gaze is still on Gina.
text: She waits on a MAN at a nearby table.
speaker_heading: CUSTOMER
dialog: How's the special today?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: It's your stomach.
text: She hurries past Jean.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hey.
text: She slows down, not wanting to.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: What do you think?
text: She looks at her portrait in the syrup... She can't resist
text: smiling.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: It's me. I've never been done in maple
dialog: syrup. Here's a rag.
text: Gina smiles. She offers him one. As she holds it out, their eyes
text: lock. She tries to resist his smile.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Gina?
text: She puts her finger in the syrup and licks it off.
text: Benny takes it all in.
text: Leshko is upon them.
speaker_heading: LESHKO
dialog: Alright. Look at you, staring at this girl,
text: making a mess.
text: He waves Jean toward the door.
text: Jean takes Gina's rag and begins cleaning his mess, seemingly
dialog: compliant.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: How about those pancakes?
text: He brings out a roll of dimes to the tabletop and splits it open.
text: Dimes roll all over the table and stick in the syrupy parts. The
text: manager explodes.
speaker_heading: LESHKO
dialog: OK! Goodbye!
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Pipe down, Lech. Let him order.
speaker_heading: LESHKO
dialog: You nuts? Let him order? You on his side?
dialog: You're not such a good waitress. You get
text: out, too.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I just don't think you're being fair.
speaker_heading: LESHKO
dialog: I need this?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I need this?
text: Gina quietly removes her apron in disbelief.
text: Benny gets up to leave very casually.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: (waving g'bye to Jean)
dialog: Willie Mays.
speaker_heading: LESHKO
dialog: (to Gina)
dialog: That's right. You go with them. Make babies
dialog: the government has to pay for.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: GINA AND JEAN
dialog: Leave the restaurant.
text: Behind them, we see Rene, absorbed in his writing.
scene_heading: EXT. AVE. A - DAY
text: They stand outside, not knowing quite what comes next.
text: Jean gives Benny a look (i.e. 'scram').
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Catch you later.
text: Benny leaves.
text: A CHILLY WIND picks up.
text: Jean's mood is suddenly downcast.
text: They button up their overcoats, about to leave.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: What's a job, anyway?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: What's wrong with you?
text: The truth is, he feels awful for causing Gina's trouble, but
text: shows it by moping like a child.
speaker_heading: GINA (CONT'D)
dialog: No, don't tell me - you just got fired by
dialog: your crazy boss.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I guess you did.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Guess I just got sick of him.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Can I walk you home?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I think I could do that alone.
text: Gina walks away.
text: He runs after her.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Wait, I'm in a band....We're at the Mudd
dialog: Club on Halloween. I'll put you on the
dialog: list.
text: Gina turns and looks back at Jean.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I hate the Mudd Club.
text: He catches up to her.
text: Gina notices a dead leaf in his hair and picks it out.
speaker_heading: GINA (CONT'D)
dialog: Have you been camping? You could use a
dialog: scrub.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'm clean. Smell me. I always smell good. I
dialog: don't know why, I just do!
text: He leans forward, offering his neck.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (smelling)
dialog: You do! You definitely do.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Just come to the Mudd Club on Friday.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I don't go there. Too many party girls.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Party girls? Can I call you?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (teasing him)
dialog: Yeah, if you have any dimes left. 477-0496.
text: He writes her number on his pant cuff with a big fat magic
dialog: marker.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Here, this is for you. I made this.
text: He hands her the small speaker.
text: She takes it.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Thanks.
text: She admires the speaker watches him walk off.
scene_heading: EXT. MENTAL HOSPITAL (OUTSIDE THE CITY)
text: We see Jean crossing a lawn outside a mental hospital.
scene_heading: INT. MENTAL HOSPITAL - RECREATION / VISITING ROOM - DAY
text: PSYCH. PATIENTS fill a cavernous day-room engaged in arts and
text: crafts. Some of the sadder patients stare off into space as Jean
text: crosses the room. He carries a plate of cookies and a full glass
dialog: of milk.
text: He approaches a sad, nice-looking, middle-aged black woman - the
text: same one from the dream, earlier. She sits alone fondling a
text: pillow in her lap. It's his mother, MATILDE. She doesn't see him
dialog: coming.
text: As he sets the plate in front of her, she notices him. She
text: recognizes him and seems pleased, even in her isolation. He
text: kisses her on the cheek.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hey, mom.
text: She smiles slightly.
text: Jean takes a cookie. She does likewise.
text: They eat in silence, looking at each other, communicating what
dialog: they can.
text: Time passes. In between cookies her fingers find and break the
text: stems of the pillow feathers.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: I met the girl I'm gonna marry.
text: His mother brightens. She drinks the milk. They finish the
dialog: cookies.
speaker_heading: MATILDE
dialog: Do you like it here?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'd like it better in Hawaii.
scene_heading: INT. CARDBOARD BOX - NIGHT
text: Jean tries to sleep in the box. RAIN falls heavily onto it.
text: Drops of water hit his face.
text: He wills it to stop. It doesn't.
text: Finally, he can't stand it. Rain forces his blinking eyes open.
scene_heading: INT. BENNY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: A door opens to reveal Jean's wet face.
text: Benny lets him in.
text: Jean enters a rundown railroad flat crammed with musical
text: instruments, beer cans, and homemade art. There's a couch with a
text: sheet over it.
text: Junk is piled in a corner - mostly art books and drawings.
text: Benny sits down at an electric piano, which he's evidently
text: playing. He sings along, softly, working out the words,
text: concentrating, absorbed.
text: Jean sets his belongings on the couch, walks to a mic stand and
text: starts making up his own words.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: "She loves me.
dialog: Oh yeah she loves me!
dialog: She loooooooves me,
dialog: Oh yeah she loves me!"
dialog: Bring me some chicken, baby!
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Would you shut the fuck up? You hear what
dialog: I'm doing?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah man. I'm jealous. You're always great,
dialog: Benny.
dialog: (goes back into 'act')
dialog: "Her name is G-I-N-A Gina
dialog: And she lo-oooves me."
dialog: I did say chicken!
text: Benny turns off the piano and lights a roach, angry at Jean's
dialog: self-centeredness.
text: Jean digs through a pile of garbage. Finally, he finds what he's
text: looking for - a pile of "SAMO baseball cards" - color Xeroxes of
text: his favorite images and words. He pockets them.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: I knew I left these somewhere. One of
dialog: these'll send your kids to college someday.
dialog: (hands it to Benny solemnly)
dialog: Here - I made this for you.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Thanks.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Your dad called again - something about a
dialog: job.
text: He hands Jean a slip of paper. He notices the number on Jean's
dialog: pants.
speaker_heading: BENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: You got a date already?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (exhaling)
dialog: We're getting married. She said she could
dialog: tell I was a great artist - she could see
dialog: it in my eyes. She said she wanted to be by
dialog: my side and have inter-racial babies with
dialog: me.
text: Benny grins. He grabs a basketball and spins it expertly on his
dialog: index finger.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: G'night... See you in court tomorrow.
text: Jean turns on the TV. He notices the roach. He picks up the paper
text: Benny gave him with the message from his father and sets it on
dialog: fire.
text: He lights the roach with it.
text: He looks up; on television, we see a BUM being interviewed. Jean
text: turns up the volume.
text: The bum's on the ground, looking beat up. Jean picks up a pocket
dialog: recorder and turns it on:
speaker_heading: BUM
dialog: The guy just hit me and I was on the
dialog: ground!!!! Boom, for real.
text: Jean mutes the sound on the TV. He rewinds and proudly plays back
dialog: the words "Boom, for real."
text: He picks up the phone and dials. He turns on the speakerphone.
text: Jean holds the recorder to the speaker as someone answers the
text: phone. (Jean walks in and out of frame throughout the following.)
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (deadpan)
dialog: I-Is this the s-s-suicide h-h-hotline?
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Yes. My name is Chris. What's yours?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Jean Michel.
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: That's a beautiful name. French?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Haitian. I'm going to kill myself. I'm
text: taking pills. Reds, blues, greens.
text: Jean opens his notepad and looks down a long list of seemingly
text: random words. He comes to the words (in order) "liquid, hijack,"
dialog: and "Marlboros."
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: What? Wait a minute... talk to me.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (about to sob)
dialog: Life doesn't... make... sense. This city's
dialog: k-killing me. I want my liquid hijack
dialog: Marlboros!
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: What? Life's beautiful. Depression isn't
dialog: permanent. Don't you believe that?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: What is it - did your girlfriend leave you?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: No! I have a boyfriend. He loves me.
text: Jean spies an electric pencil sharpener and plugs it in.
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: You see? You have someone to live for.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: No, I don't. I'm alone. We all are.
dialog: Especially here. The world's unjust. The
dialog: respect fools get. The disrespect I get.
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: What is it you want? Respect? I have
dialog: respect for you, just for making this call.
dialog: One philosopher said "Sadness is a sin
dialog: against the richness of the world." Think
dialog: about it. Feel it.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You don't even know me. I want real
dialog: respect.
text: He jams a pencil into the electric sharpener and holds the
text: receiver right next to it, giving the guy an earful:
text: RRRRKKKKKKK!!!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON
text: CLOSE UP - A speaker. It fills the screen.
dialog: We continue to hear:
speaker_heading: CHRIS (O.S.)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What? What do you want?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (breaking loose)
dialog: Fame. My liquid hijack Marlboros and the
text: moon and the cow that jumped over it.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK FROM SPEAKER TO REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. MUDD CLUB - HALLOWEEN NIGHT
text: Jean and Benny are on stage with two other GUYS, members of the
text: band Gray. Everyone but Jean is dressed in some sort of Halloween
dialog: costume.
text: We HEAR the words "Boom, for real" blasting from the P.A. system.
text: What follows is a continuation, a collage of words from Jean's
dialog: "suicide hotline" call -
dialog: P.A.
dialog: One philosopher said "Give me my liquid
dialog: hijack Marlboros. Life's beautiful. You
dialog: have someone to live for. What do you want?
dialog: RKKKK! That's a beautiful name... French?
text: Jean sits in a chair onstage with his band members. Benny plays
text: the organ. The other band members play percussion and guitar.
dialog: It works. The crowd loves it.
text: The song ends abruptly.
text: We begin to hear James Brown's "Sex Machine."
text: Jean looks out into the crowd and notices Gina. She's looking
text: right back at him from the bar. Pleased to see her face, he says
dialog: to himself -
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Boom, for real.
text: We see him walk offstage into the crowd. They meet.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: I thought you hated this place?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I do.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I just said that. I was never here before.
dialog: I actually like it.
text: MUSIC segues into PIL's "Public Image".
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Let's get out of here.
text: He leads her towards the exit. They step out of the club.
scene_heading: EXT. MUDD CLUB - NIGHT
speaker_heading: HIGH, WIDE ANGLE
text: It's raining heavily. Jean motions for Gina to wait under the
text: entrance. He tries to hail a cab... And another. And another.
text: A parade of them passes, but each time they slow down, they get a
text: glimpse of Jean and drive off.
text: Finally, Gina steps out of the entrance. She raises her hand, and
text: a car pulls over instantly.
scene_heading: INT. CAB - NIGHT
text: They scurry into the backseat.
text: The cab pulls off.
scene_heading: EXT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: Through a steamy, rain-wet window, we see Jean and Gina seated at
text: a table, dining.
text: They seem to be having a nice time.
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - NEXT MORNING
text: Gina lays in bed. Daylight streams into the apartment.
text: Jackhammers RATTLE outside. (Music: REGGAE SONG - Errol
dialog: Scorcher's "Cockroach in de Corner.")
speaker_heading: EXTREME CLOSEUP
text: A cockroach crawls from Gina's bedroom across the floor and into
text: the kitchen where Jean sits naked on the floor, working on a
text: drawing. It crawls over his drawing towards a cardboard box.
text: Jean rummages through a cabinet. He finds a can of bugspray. Jean
text: tears off a side of the box. With cardboard in one hand and
text: bugspray in the other, he forgets the cockroach.
text: He's mesmerized by the list of ingredients on the aerosol can.
text: Someone POUNDS furiously at the door.
text: Ignoring the pounding, he starts listing the ingredients on the
text: piece of cardboard, finishing his new drawing by including a
text: symbol of a cockroach to the left of the list.
speaker_heading: LANDLADY
dialog: Miss Cardinale... Open up for me, please!
text: He gets up and peeks through the security hole. He sees a middle-
text: aged Hispanic woman reaching to unlock the door. He opens it.
speaker_heading: LANDLADY (CONT'D)
dialog: Ohhh, Dios mio!
text: She stares at him levelly.
speaker_heading: LANDLADY (CONT'D)
dialog: I just want the rent.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Why didn't you say so? Damn! She's asleep!
text: Jean draws on a piece of paper on the counter next to him. He
text: hands it to the landlady. It's a a little shack with a big head
text: next to it that says "'Here' For Rent."
text: The landlady looks at him like he's crazy. She balls up the
text: drawing and puts it in her pocket.
text: Gina arrives in the doorway, wearing a robe. The landlady's
text: trapped between them.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: What're you doing?
text: The landlady wags her finger at Gina.
speaker_heading: LANDLADY
dialog: Next Monday.
text: Gina and Jean look amused as they watch her leave.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Wanna go get some breakfast?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: A friend of mine offered me a job doing a
text: little work installing a show in a gallery.
dialog: He's an electrician. I was supposed to be
dialog: there an hour ago.
text: She looks at the bugspray drawing on the floor.
speaker_heading: GINA (CONT'D)
dialog: Ohh, that's nice.
text: Jean kisses her neck as she looks at the drawing.
text: We HOLD on the drawing.
scene_heading: INT. MARY BOONE GALLERY - DAY
text: White dust sprinkles down onto Jean's face from the ceiling.
text: Unable to use his hands, he tries to blow the dust out of his
dialog: eyes...
text: His boss, GREG, a mild-mannered hippie electrician, works above
text: him on the ladder. Jean steadies the ladder. Greg's head is out
dialog: of frame.
text: The gallery is an impressive space under preparations for an
dialog: opening.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Jean, could you get me a Phillips
dialog: screwdriver?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: A what?
speaker_heading: GREG
text: A Phillips head. From the toolbox.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah.
text: Jean searches through the toolbox. He picks up a screwdriver and
text: reads the handle: "CRAFTSMAN"
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: 'Phillips head,' right?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Yeah.
text: Jean shakes his head and puts it back. He tries a couple more -
text: they each say "CRAFTSMAN." He puts them back.
text: Finally, he finds one with a different handle. It says "G.S.C.
dialog: 2000."
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You don't have any!!!
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: That's impossible. I've got, like, five of
dialog: 'em!
text: He comes down off the ladder.
speaker_heading: GREG (CONT'D)
dialog: You're holding one in your hand!!!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You've never done this kind of work before,
dialog: have you?
dialog: (demonstrating)
dialog: See, this is a regular screwdriver, and
dialog: this is a Phillips head. The cross thing...
dialog: I'll tell you later what all the tools are
dialog: so you'll know.
text: A GROUP of people arrives.
text: Albert Milo comes into view, tailed closely by Rene Ricard and
text: MARY BOONE - well dressed, petite, intense, 30. Milo, (also about
text: 30), wears casual clothes splattered with paint. Mary Boone is
text: engaged in conversation with Milo. Rene chatters away.
text: Greg climbs back up the ladder. He holds a piece of wire down to
text: Jean. Jean stares at the group while trying to be invisible.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: I need to make a call, Mary. You don't
dialog: mind, do you?
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: Certainly not. You can use my line.
text: Rene picks up the phone.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: To Paris. Bernard Picasso -
dialog: (to Mary)
dialog: You know Bernard -
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: (wincing)
dialog: Be my guest.
text: Jean watches the group talking.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Jean? Hold this, please.
dialog: (beat - he sees why Jean's so
dialog: distracted)
dialog: You'll get there. But it's good to have
dialog: something to fall back on. That's why I
text: became an electrician. It pays the rent.
dialog: Y'know, I'm an artist, too.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I didn't know.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: I sculpt. I'm really just starting to find
dialog: myself. How old are you? Twenty? You're
dialog: just like I used to be. I'm forty-one. And
dialog: I'm glad I haven't gotten any recognition.
dialog: It gave me time to develop.
text: Jean watches Mary and Milo talking.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: (to Milo)
dialog: I can't tell you how happy I am with this
dialog: show.
text: Mary yells across the room to Jean.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE (CONT'D)
dialog: (her tone impersonal)
dialog: Excuse me - you - what's your name? Would
dialog: you move those tools there and put them
dialog: somewhere else?
text: He looks at her.
text: Milo watches to see what he's going to do.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (to Milo)
dialog: My name is Jean Michel Basquiat. Have you
dialog: heard of me?
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: (amused)
dialog: No. Should I have?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'm a painter, too.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: Really. Huh. Too bad.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: Excuse me, would you please move those
dialog: tools?
text: Jean looks at Milo. Milo looks back at him.
text: Jean walks past the tools and continues toward the door. He walks
text: out without turning around.
text: Milo smiles to himself.
scene_heading: EXT. BOONE GALLERY - ALBERT MILO OPENING - DUSK
text: The ART WORLD CROWD fills the gallery. Jean lurks across the
text: street, watching through the window.
text: Cabs and limousines line the block. A crowd outside blocks the
dialog: street.
text: Jean's obviously impressed, jealous and estranged - he feels
dialog: entitled to all this.
text: He crosses the street to get a closer look.
text: THROUGH THE WINDOW
text: He sees Albert Milo talking with ANDY WARHOL and BRUNO
text: BISCHOFBERGER. Andy, of course, is thin, silver-haired, and
text: nearly albino. Bruno is a Swiss art dealer in his 40's. He exudes
dialog: money - a pillar of security.
text: On the other side of the room, Rene Ricard is surrounded by a
text: coterie of young, mostly BLACK AND HISPANIC MALES. Rene looks
text: drunk, enjoying the moment, holding court.
text: Rene crosses to Albert and Andy.
text: People pass by.
text: Jean starts to walk.
text: About half a block away, he sprays on a wall:
text: "THE WHOLE LIVERY LINE BOW LIKE THIS WITH THE BIG MONEY ALL
text: CRUSHED INTO THESE FEET"
text: He looks pleased. He turns and looks up West Broadway beyond the
text: buildings at the sky:
text: SUPERIMPOSED IN THE SKY
text: We see a surfer emerging from a HUGE WAVE. He looks powerful and
dialog: exalted.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY
text: ANGLE ON: A wall. We see the following graffity:
text: "JIMMY BEST ON HIS BACK TO THE SUCKERPUNCH OF HIS CHILDHOOD
speaker_heading: YEARS"
text: A basketball bounces against a wall.
text: Jean and Benny amble onto a basketball court. Jean's changed his
text: hairstyle. Now the dreadlocks stand straight up from his head.
text: Benny dribbles with skill while Jean puffs furiously on a
text: cigarette. He doesn't look like he's slept, but he's happy.
text: Benny throws the ball to Jean. It bounces off a puddle and
text: splashes Jean.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Come on, Jean. Get rid of your cigarette.
dialog: Concentrate.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I am... On Gina.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Fuck - I didn't think we were actually
dialog: gonna do this.
speaker_heading: BENNY
text: Concentrate on the ball. Shoot.
text: Jean shoots. It flies up, up, up - and over the backboard.
text: He runs after the ball, gets it, and dribbles clumsily.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: You're shattering all my myths.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Your people.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Oh - you mean black people!
text: He shoots and misses again. He throws it to Benny, who does a
text: picture-perfect lay-up.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: (changing the subject)
dialog: How long do you think it takes to get
dialog: really famous?
text: During the following, Benny performs a series of amazing shots
text: while Jean looks on admiringly.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: For a musician or a painter?
text: Jean shrugs.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Whatever. Famous. To where you can do your
dialog: stuff all day without thinking about
dialog: anything else.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Ummm... Four years. Six to get rich.
text: He shoots. Swish.
speaker_heading: BENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: First, you have to dress right.
text: He shoots again. Swish.
speaker_heading: BENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: Then, you have to hang out all the time -
dialog: with famous people - the right people, the
dialog: right chicks, the right parties.
text: He shoots again. Swish.
speaker_heading: BENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: And you gotta do your work all the time
dialog: when you're not doing that. The same kinda
dialog: work, the same style - over and over
dialog: again, so people recognize it and don't get
dialog: confused. Then, once you're famous, you
dialog: have to keep doing it the same way, even
dialog: after it's boring - unless you want people
dialog: to really get mad at you - which they will
dialog: anyway.
text: Benny tosses Jean the ball. Jean walks off the court.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Come on. I hate this. I'm no good at it.
text: Jean shoots the ball and keeps walking. The ball goes in. He
text: doesn't notice. Benny runs after it.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSTON ST. - DUSK
text: Benny and Jean walk along. Benny dribbles.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Famous people are usually pretty stupid.
dialog: You're too smart. You'd get bored to death.
dialog: You don't wanna be like John Henry -
dialog: fighting the machine. Just do what you do.
dialog: It's about integrity. Follow your heart.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Who's John Henry?
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Oh man! Folklore guy - worked on the
dialog: railroad. Y'know, pounding in spikes and
dialog: laying down track. Then one day they
dialog: invented a machine to do it. And he says
dialog: "Fuck that, I'm a MAN" and he challenges
text: the machine to a race to lay down a mile of
dialog: track. It takes two days. Neck and neck the
dialog: whole time. They get right to the end, and
text: he beats it by one spike.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Got a cigarette?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: So then what?
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: He drops dead! See? Just do your shit like
dialog: you do it! Your friends like you, you get
dialog: laid, everyone walks by, sees your stuff
dialog: everywhere. It's good. What else do you
dialog: want?
text: They watch a long stretch limo cruises up across the street.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Like I said - my liquid hijack Marlboros.
dialog: (indicates limo)
dialog: Check it out.
text: The LIMO DRIVER opens the back door. Andy Warhol and Bruno
text: Bischofberger step out.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: Andy Warhol. He's famous and he's not
dialog: boring.
text: INSERT: AN IMAGE OF ANDY'S PAINTINGS AT THE WHITNEY MUSEUM
scene_heading: (FOOTAGE FROM JONAS MEKAS FILM)
text: Jean scrounges in his pockets, pulls out his Xerox cards, and
text: readies himself as Bruno and Andy enter BALLATO'S RESTAURANT.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: What're you doing? You're doing something.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: He's the best painter in the world. I'm
dialog: gonna give him one of these.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Don't give him anything, man. Your art's
dialog: worth a lot. Trade. That's what real
dialog: artists do with each other. Besides, he'll
dialog: just use you. He's famous for that.
text: Benny watches Jean crosses the street. Jean passes the limousine.
text: Inside, the driver (a 24-year old Rasta) takes a hit from a joint
text: and watches Jean.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: The driver's eyes.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: DRIVER'S POV:
text: He watches Jean cross the street.
text: Jean enters the restaurant.
scene_heading: INT. BALLATO'S - DAY
text: Jean enters. Andy and Bruno spot him. The Maitre'd becomes
text: alarmed. but it's too late - he's at their table.
text: He spreads his cards on the table. The topmost card reads
text: "REDEEMABLE BECAUSE OF HIS YOUTH."
text: Andy stares dead ahead, Sphinxlike.
text: Bruno watches the non-interaction between the two.
speaker_heading: MAITRE'D
dialog: (to Jean, flustered)
dialog: Can I help you?.
text: He taps Jean's shoulder.
speaker_heading: MAITRE'D (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: Sir...?
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: (sympathetically)
dialog: I think it's ok.
speaker_heading: MAITRE'D
dialog: Of course, Mr. Bischofberger.
text: Bruno picks up one of the cards.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You wanna buy some ignorant art? Ten bucks.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Ignorant art?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah... Like - stupid, ridiculous, crummy
dialog: art.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Ohhh. That's new. That sounds good.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Ten bucks apiece.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: I can give you five. You didn't do very
dialog: much to these.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You don't even work on your stuff!
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: It doesn't matter how much you worked on
dialog: them. It matters how much you can get for
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I can get ten.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: I'll take two. This one and... that one.
dialog: (to Bruno)
dialog: Can I borrow some money, Bruno?
text: Bruno pulls out a hundred dollar bill.
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: Here. Do you have change?
text: As WAITER arrives with the tray, Jean pockets the bill.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You made a good deal. Here, you can have
dialog: these, too.
text: He leaves all the cards and walks toward the door.
speaker_heading: BRUNO'S POV:
text: Jean leaving past stupified Maitre'd.
scene_heading: EXT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Jean and Benny are outside the entrance to Gina's building. Jean
text: carries two huge bags overflowing with groceries and flowers. He
text: buzzes. There's no answer.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'll be right back.
text: He produces a key and lets himself in.
text: He enters the building.
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Jean sets the groceries on the counter and leaves.
text: We notice the Bugspray painting on the wall, along with more of
text: Jean's work and supplies.
scene_heading: EXT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DUSK
text: Jean rejoins Benny in front of Gina's building.
text: As they're leaving, Gina comes up the street.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (to Benny)
dialog: Check you later, man.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Hi Gina.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Hi.
scene_heading: INT - GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Flowers and groceries are strewn on the counter.
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
dialog: Over the following MONTAGE we HEAR:
speaker_heading: RENE (O.S.)
dialog: ... 'APT 20'... The church bells would ring
dialog: at noon and six a.m.. 24 strokes:
dialog: How many times we counted them.
dialog: We called our bed the cloud.
dialog: And there we'd float.
text: The bathtub was in the kitchen
dialog: and took forever to fill up.
dialog: We'd bathe together afterwards.
dialog: Oh the countless cigarettes and
dialog: take out Chinese food...
dialog: The bed was so narrow
dialog: Three years we made it fit.
dialog: The sheets were green the
dialog: sheets were pink the sheets
text: white linen from the past.
dialog: Little home, farewell,
text: The broken windows
text: and the bodega on the corner.
dialog: Now from my balcony
dialog: I look out over all New York...
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Jean and Gina are sleeping.
text: SERIES OF DISSOLVES: As they're turning together in their sleep.
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
speaker_heading: FADE UP:
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN / LIVINGROOM (GINA'S APARTMENT) - DAY
text: Filled with Jean's paintings.
text: SERIES OF DISSOLVES: Paintings and objects fill the room.
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
text: SUPER: "A YEAR AND A HALF LATER EAST 9TH ST."
speaker_heading: FADE UP:
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Jean watches "The Little Rascals" on TV in the living room. The
text: sound is turned off and a record player PLAYS Gypsy music loudly.
text: Rolled up in a large drop cloth, Gina is asleep on the floor.
text: Next to her, Jean works on all fours, drawing figures, crowns,
dialog: and houses.
text: Working feverishly, he writes "HEY, HEY, HEY" in big clusters,
text: then writes other words: SHARK, IMMORTALITY, JOHN THE REVELATOR,
scene_heading: FAME, INK, TEETH, HAWAII SUPERMARKET, POLE STAR, BABOON and TAR.
text: He has an acoustics manual and Bible open on the floor. He copies
text: the technical blueprints from the manual. He reads the Bible,
text: following the text with a dirty finger. It seems that he watches
text: TV, draws, listens to the music and reads at the same time.
text: He mixes Liquitex paints and puts some colors on the drawings. He
text: draws a long blue line and carries it over onto the floor. Up the
text: wall. Through the fridge. Across the window.
text: He takes off his paint-covered clothes and changes into Gina's
text: black slip. He rummages around the room, gathering pieces of his
text: and Gina's clothes.
text: He spreads the clothes on the floor, and selecting wide brushes
text: with long bristles, picks up the cans of Liquitex paint.
text: When paint spills on the clothes, he spreads it into shapes.
text: Gina wakes up. She reaches for one of the painted shirts.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (in disbelief)
dialog: Basquiat, those are my best clothes!!! What
dialog: are you doing?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: C'mon, baby, I painted them for you.
dialog: They're beautiful now.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I'm going to my parents this weekend. What
dialog: am I going to wear?
dialog: (she begins to cry)
dialog: How could you do that to me?
text: Jean wipes his hands off on his thighs and puts his arms around
text: Gina, holding her.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: ... I'll buy you some new ones.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: You don't have any fucking money..
text: Jean lets her cry for a moment, then notices the music playing on
text: the stereo - a Gypsy song sung in Spanish.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Do you know what he's saying?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: What who's saying?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Manzanita....
dialog: (translating song)
dialog: ... if one day I die, and you read this
dialog: piece of paper, I want you to know how much
dialog: I love you. Although I'll never see you
dialog: again, Gypsy, Gypsy, your hair, your hair,
dialog: your face, your face'
text: Gina looks up at him.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: 'Even though you were never mine
dialog: And you never will be
dialog: You have a piece of my heart
dialog: You have, you have, you have...'
text: (he reaches down, wiping off
dialog: Gina's face)
dialog: 'Gypsy, Gypsy, your hair, your hair, your
dialog: face, your face.'
text: No longer crying, Gina leans her head against Jean.
dialog: We HEAR a CALL from the window:
speaker_heading: BENNY (O.S.)
dialog: Willie Mays!!! Willie Mays!!!
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (at the window)
dialog: Come on in!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Benny and two GUYS come barreling into the apartment. Immediate
text: chaos. Benny holds up a packet of drugs and jiggles it
text: temptingly. They make themselves at home. Jean sits with them and
text: starts to chop up the drugs.
text: Gina gives Jean a look. She stands, still wrapped in the drop
text: cloth. She lets it fall to the floor. She's wearing only her
text: underwear. She walks to the bedroom. Benny watches her.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Gina, don't you want any of this? You could
dialog: use some.
text: Gina doesn't respond. She comes out of the bedroom with a small
dialog: suitcase.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: See you later.
text: She leaves.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: GUY #1
dialog: Nice underwear...
text: They start to laugh.
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - LATER
text: Kneeling on the floor, Jean covers the surface of the
text: refrigerator door with fast, rushing strokes. He mixes paint in a
text: large soupbowl and dips his hair in the bowl. Pressing his head
text: to the door, he paints with his hair. He stops to examine the
dialog: marks.
text: He HITS his head against the door harder and harder.
speaker_heading: FADE TO WHITE
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - MORNING
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK: Revealing Jean's eyes. They're open and
text: motionless. His head is tilted toward his chest.
text: OFF SCREEN WE HEAR the sounds of Gina coming home:
text: The LOCK turns. The door OPENS.
text: Gina comes in and drops a bag on the floor.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Basquiat?
text: Silence. She picks up the mail from under the door and walks into
text: the room. There's a lump on the floor. It's Jean.
speaker_heading: GINA (CONT'D)
dialog: Wake up! I'm back!
text: She shakes his arm. No result. She lifts his head, revealing his
text: painted hair.
text: She shakes him harder. His body is totally limp.
text: The whites of his eyes are red; his pupils slowly float up,
text: vanishing.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Jean, what did you do to yourself?
text: She listens to his breath, then to his heart.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (panicking)
dialog: Jesus Christ!
text: She finds heroin sprinkled into some pot on the floor near him.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (slapping his face)
dialog: Don't do this to me.
text: She shakes him until his eyes unglue. His pupils float into their
dialog: proper place.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: ... What's the matter?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Oh, God, Basquiat, you scared the shit out
dialog: of me. How the fuck could you do that to
dialog: yourself?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You're back.
speaker_heading: GINA
text: It's Monday morning.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: It's not Sunday? I missed you. You
dialog: shouldn't leave me alone.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: You're blaming me? I had to go see my
dialog: family.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'm your family.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Basquiat, what did you take?
text: Jean tries to pick himself up from the floor. He gets up stiffly,
text: like Pinnocchio. The long sleep made his limbs wooden.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Nothing special - just some weed.
text: He finds an old joint and lights it up.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Basquiat, don't lie.
dialog: (holds up powder)
dialog: This is smack.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You want some?
text: He offers her the joint.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. MARK'S PLACE - NIGHT
text: Jean and Benny walk along, sharing a beer in a brown paper bag.
text: They approach a DRUG DEALER and exchange money for dope.
text: Jean finds a discarded window frame in a pile of trash and
text: carries it with him.
text: They sit down on a stoop. Jean rolls up a dollar bill, empties
text: the dope onto the window, and splits it into two lines. He hands
text: the rolled up bill to Benny, who snorts the line.
text: Benny shakes his head involuntarily, making a violent face, as
text: though the dope burned a hole in his sinus.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: We got beat.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: For real?
text: Jean takes a taste with his finger... He tastes his tongue and
text: makes a face..
text: He snorts part of his line, anyway, to make sure.
text: He frowns.
text: They continue onwards. Jean still carries the window.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: You gonna carry that around all night?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah... I'll paint on it.
scene_heading: INT. PARTY - NIGHT
text: The party's winding down - hip-hop kids, Lower East Side types.
text: Jean and Benny pass through the room, ignoring the two or three
text: clusters of people - maybe fifteen in all...
text: Jean encounters a familiar face: an enormous red-haired dealer -
text: ROCKETS (35). They greet each other as friends.
text: Rockets leads Jean aside. They stand near a wall where a painting
text: hangs ("Flats Fixed"). It bears Jean's three-point crown.
speaker_heading: ROCKETS
dialog: You did that, didn't you?
text: Jean shrugs.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I gave it to Maripol. She let me stay here
dialog: for awhile.
text: Jean hands him twenty dollars. Rockets hands him two dime bags.
text: As if thinking better, he hands the bill back to Jean.
speaker_heading: ROCKETS
dialog: Do one for me and it's free. How's that?
text: Jean re-pockets his money. He gestures to Rockets as if to say
dialog: "fine - it's a deal."
text: He and Benny sit down across the room and split a bag onto the
text: window, as before. This time, it's good. They lean back into it,
text: slumping down into the couch.
text: Nearby, Rene sits on a couch with THREE STREET KIDS - artists
text: (who we've seen at Milo's opening). They sit on their knees
text: looking out a window passing binoculars back and forth.
text: ARTIST #1 looks through the window with a pair of BINOCULARS. He
text: points down towards the street, trying to get Rene's attention.
speaker_heading: ARTIST #1
dialog: Check this out, Rene.
text: Rene lunges towards the window. The stereo BLARES (Curtis Blow's
dialog: "Survival")
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: (singing along)
dialog: "The name of the game is survival, You
dialog: learn it in jail upon your arrival!"
text: Another ARTIST (#2) a young black man, runs up and tries to turn
dialog: down the volume.
text: Rene grabs his crotch.
speaker_heading: ARTIST #2
dialog: Chill, man! Be cool! This isn't even my
dialog: apartment!
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Oh man, you a FINE nigga! You know that?
speaker_heading: ARTIST #2
dialog: Cut it out, man! And don't be callin' me
dialog: that shit!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON:
text: Benny is now alone on the couch. He nods out.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: (noticing him)
dialog: Oh my, there goes the neighborhood. Who's
dialog: house is this, anyway?
text: Artist #2 is still mad at Rene.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Artist #2)
dialog: That's what I like about you straight boys.
dialog: You're so sensitive!!!
dialog: (resumes singing)
dialog: "The name of the game is survival,
dialog: Survival! Survival! only the strong
dialog: survive"
speaker_heading: ARTIST #1
dialog: Rene! Come here, man!
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: I gotta go pee.
text: Rene weaves across the room. Suddenly, he stops cold. He's
text: staring at Jean's painting. He doesn't move.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Who did this?
dialog: (beat - louder)
dialog: Who did this?
speaker_heading: ARTIST #2
dialog: I don't know. I told you, this isn't my
dialog: apartment.
speaker_heading: ARTIST #3
dialog: I know who did that. That's Jean Michel's.
dialog: He's right here, man...
text: He turns to look for Jean.
speaker_heading: ARTIST #3
dialog: Fuck, man, where'd he go? Where's Jean?
text: Benny looks around ineffectually and shrugs.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: It's fucking amazing. Motherfucker's got to
text: put a crown on it.
speaker_heading: ARTIST #1
dialog: (yelling from the window)
dialog: Rene, man, check this out. Whoa... He's
dialog: kinda cute.
text: Rene looks to him and back at the painting. He takes one last
dialog: look.
text: He stumbles towards the window and grabs the binoculars from
dialog: Artist #1..
text: We look through the binoculars' POV at a GUY coming down the
text: street. He's wearing all black, cowboy boots, and sunglasses.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Naaaa. Poor thing has a little dick.
speaker_heading: ARTIST #2
dialog: How do you know?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Just look at him.
text: (Rene hands the binoculars to
dialog: him)
dialog: Little silver thingies on his cowboy boots?
dialog: Honey, I don't think so.
text: He looks around the room again as if looking for Jean.
speaker_heading: ARTIST #3
dialog: Whoa - check it out. It's him!
text: Rene grabs binoculars.
speaker_heading: BINOCULARS POV:
text: Jean pauses before one of his own graffiti pieces:
text: "PLUSH SAFE, HE THINK"
text: Rene watches in awe. Jean, moving a bit slowly, `signs' his tag
text: with the copyright sign. He walks off.
speaker_heading: RENE
speaker_heading: MOTHAFUCKAH!
speaker_heading: ARTIST #2
dialog: That's the same guy who did this painting.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: I know that. Don't let him get away.
text: He hands the binoculars to Artist #3 and runs towards the door.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BINOCULARS POV
text: We watch as Rene looks frantically for Jean, but can't spot him.
text: Finally he sees Jean's hair-do bobbing up and down a block away.
text: He runs towards it.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Hey, wait up!!!
text: Huffing and puffing, he catches up.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: You heard of Albert Milo. I made that
dialog: niggah. I'm Rene Ricard. Didn't you read
dialog: "Not About Albert Milo?" I know who to
dialog: hype. Baby, I'm gonna make you a star.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Can you put me in the ring with him?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: I can put you in the ring with him. Even
dialog: book the dates.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But those big boys know how to fight. They
dialog: could make you look real sissy.
dialog: (they laugh)
dialog: I was looking at that painting upstairs.
dialog: It's the first time a picture made me
dialog: embarrassed to own anything.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So what's your real name? 'Samo?'
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Jean Michel Basquiat.
text: They shake hands.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Sounds famous already.
scene_heading: INT. PS 1 SHOW - DAY
text: INSERT: A huge poster reads:
scene_heading: "NEW YORK / NEW WAVE
speaker_heading: 100 ARTISTS"
scene_heading: CLOSE ON: A HAMMER, POUNDING
text: Jean pounds a nail into one of his pieces, nailing it directly
text: onto the wall. Everyone stares.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Oh child... You got no respect. Didn't
dialog: anyone teach you how to mount paintings?
text: Rene smiles. Jean finishes pounding the last piece into the wall.
text: CAMERA pulls back to reveal several of Jean's paintings - found
text: objects with paint on them.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: This is a very important season in New
text: York. One's public appearance is absolute.
dialog: (beat - a man approaches)
dialog: Oh!!! Louise!!! I'd like you to meet Jean
dialog: Michel Basquiat -
dialog: (beat)
dialog: SAMO. This is Henry Geldzahler.
text: A crowd begins to gather around the work.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Ohh... SAMO. I've heard a lot about you. I
dialog: love your graffiti.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I was a kid then.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: (to Rene)
dialog: How much are these?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: You or the museum?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: It's for me.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Five.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I'll take it.
text: Henry leaves.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: That's five thousand dollars.
dialog: (hissing to Jean)
dialog: He's from the Metropolitan Museum of Art so
dialog: suck my pussy, you star.
speaker_heading: LATER
text: There seems to be a buzz about Jean already. People gather around
dialog: his paintings.
text: Gina arrives. She looks great.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You look fucking beautiful, beautiful.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Well thanks!
text: ANNINA NOSEI, a sophisticated, well-groomed woman appears at
text: Jean's side. She takes in his paintings.
text: As Jean, Rene, and Annina talk, Gina is left out.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: This is Jean Michel, whose work I told you
dialog: about.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: Rene hasn't stopped talking about your
dialog: paintings. Haven't I seen you in my
dialog: gallery?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: (to Rene)
dialog: You haven't been by lately.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: I didn't have the subway fare. My Medicare
dialog: ran out.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: How do you come up with all those words you
dialog: put over everything?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I don't know.
text: Jean sees Bruno and turns his back to her.
text: Bruno looks at the paintings with a smile... He gives a cheerful
dialog: nod to Annina.
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: You're doing well.
text: He leaves. Annina's impressed that Jean knows Bruno.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: I'd love to see some more of your work...
dialog: Where's your studio?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You name it, I paint there.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: Well, I don't want to get mugged on a
dialog: Bowery street corner. Maybe I could find a
dialog: place for you to work. Take my card.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You want a drink?
text: He produces a pint bottle in a paper sack.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: No thanks.
dialog: (to Rene)
dialog: But I'd like one of these paintings.
text: She walks off.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Who's that?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: You kidding? That's Annina Nosei. Jean's
dialog: been in her gallery a thousand times.
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: You slut. How do you know Bruno
dialog: Bischofberger?
dialog: (to Gina)
dialog: He's only the biggest art dealer in Europe.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I had lunch with him once.
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT (BEDROOM) - NIGHT
text: Jean and Gina lay in bed.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Which island of Hawaii do you want our
dialog: house to be on? Maui? Kaui? Molokai?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (a little upset)
dialog: I hadn't thought about it.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (in perfect Hawaiian)
dialog: Oahu, Lanai, Niihau, Kahoolawee -
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Staten Island would be ok.
dialog: Beat. Silence.
text: Jean can't sleep. He stares at the ceiling.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Do you wanna marry me?
dialog: Beat.
dialog: No reply.
text: Gina's asleep.
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT (KITCHEN) - LATER (NIGHT)
text: Quietly, Jean kneels on the floor of the kitchen. He paints on an
dialog: old window.
text: He draws figures of three people sitting at a table - obviously a
text: family. He crosses out one person and paints a dog under the
dialog: table.
text: He crosses everything out.
text: He mixes the paint in a large bowl and starts again.
text: Again, he crosses everything out.
scene_heading: INT - GINA'S APARTMENT - MORNING
text: Jean continues to work. He's wearing pajamas and a bathrobe.
text: Gina enters, waking up.
text: She looks at the painting.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Kind of a family portrait.
text: Jean moves to add something. She stops him.
speaker_heading: GINA (CONT'D)
text: It looks done.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Think so?
text: He pauses.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: ... babies.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: You mean babies with you?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: What's wrong with me?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: You're your own baby.
text: Jean paints out the image.
text: There's a KNOCK at the door.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI (O.S)
dialog: Annina Nosei.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Who?
text: Jean jumps up and locks himself in the bathroom. Gina goes to the
text: door, unlocks the chain, and looks out.
speaker_heading: GINA (CONT'D)
dialog: (through the crack)
dialog: Hello? Oh. Come in.
text: She opens the door.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: Is Jean Michel here?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: No.
text: Closed in the bathroom, Jean smiles while eavesdropping.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: I'm here to see some work.
text: Annina starts noticing all the work around her. Gina hands her a
text: stack of drawings.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI (CONT'D)
dialog: These are great.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Aren't they?
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: How much for these five?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: You should talk to him about this.
text: Annina contains her excitement.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
text: (continuing to stare at the
dialog: work)
dialog: Um... Do Rene and Jean have a contract
dialog: together?
text: We see Jean in the bathroom looking at himself in the mirror with
text: a bird's nest on his head.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm interested in showing Jean's work.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I really think you should talk to him about
dialog: this.
text: Jean pops out of the bathroom.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: How about right now?
text: She opens the door.
text: Unnoticed, Gina starts for the bedroom.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (calling back)
dialog: Be ready in a minute!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: THE DOOR SLAMS
text: As Jean exits with Annina.
scene_heading: INT. TAXI - DAY
text: Jean waits in a taxi in front of Benny's apartment.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Honk the horn again, will you please?
text: The DRIVER obliges. The back of the cab is loaded with all his
text: belongings. Boxes piled with junk. Bags of new painting supplies.
text: Benny emerges from his building and jumps into the cab.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: (annoyed)
dialog: You're late.
dialog: (to cabby)
dialog: One-fourteen Prince.
text: The cab pulls out. Jean lights a joint. and smokes it furiously.
text: He doesn't pass it to Benny.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: What's the rush, John Henry?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I ain't John Henry.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Good.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: What's your fuckin' problem, anyway?
text: Benny holds out his hand for the joint.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: (inhaling)
dialog: I don't really have any problems.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Good. What do you have?
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: What's your fuckin' problem? You get a
text: girlfriend and a little attention and then
dialog: start acting all uppity with me.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (mortified)
dialog: 'Uppity?' Like as in 'uppity nigger?'
text: He snaps his finger for the joint back.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: That's not how I meant it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: For all you know, you might just be a flash
dialog: in the pan! You can never tell.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hey fuck you! I deserve this shit. You're
dialog: just jealous 'cause it ain't happening to
dialog: you!
text: The cab stops for a red light. Benny gets out. He doesn't say a
text: word. Jean doesn't look at him. The cab sails off.
scene_heading: EXT. ANNINA NOSEI GALLERY - DAY
text: It stops in front of the gallery. From outside, we see Annina
text: conversing on the phone. She looks up and opens the door for him.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL - BLACK.
text: Off screen we HEAR Jean walking down the stairs.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: I've got to find the switch.
scene_heading: INT - BASEMENT, ANNINA'S - DAY
text: Annina flips on a light.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: Here it is.
text: Jean looks around him. He's in a large, empty cement-floored room
text: lit by fluorescent lights.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT, ANNINA'S - (LATER) - DAY
text: Jean bends over, beginning several canvases. He pours paint on
dialog: them - kind of like photographs we've seen of Jackson Pollock. We
text: HEAR Miles Davis' "Flamenco Sketches."
scene_heading: INT - BASEMENT, ANNINA'S - DAY (LATER)
text: GRANDMASTER FLASH'S "WHITE LINES" fills the room.
text: The walls are covered with half-finished, unstretched CANVASES.
text: Two or three more lie on the floor.
text: He works like a maniac, buzzing back and forth from one painting
text: to another, adding figures, crossing out words, all the while
text: smoking and eating cookies. The crumbs fall onto the paintings.
text: He walks on them.
text: Every so often, he refers to a book of DaVinci drawings. Torn
text: pages litter the floor beneath the book.
text: We hear someone THUMPING down the stairs.
text: It's Rene. A PUPPY follows him.
text: He dumps a huge load of paint supplies, art books, and carryout
text: ribs. The puppy sniffs around happily, licking at Jean and
text: walking over the paintings, wagging his tail.
text: He stops the tape player and inserts some Persian music.
text: Jean empties some foil-wrapped bags of coke. He cuts a line of
text: coke on a foil plate.
text: Rene starts reading from a poem he's evidently written:
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: 3rd night I called him 'boy'
dialog: He sed "don't call me 'boy'" "Well
dialog: Then don't call me 'Boss'" That
dialog: Was the end for us and I've
dialog: Been seeing him for 2 1/2 years.
dialog: In kangaroo court I want to be
dialog: Able to say I never kept a
dialog: Slave. But he tricked me in
text: To Tying him up and busting his
dialog: Face. He'll jump up at my Trial
dialog: Yelling 'He wupped me gud.'
text: Jean warms the plate 'til the coke crackles, and then "chases the
text: dragon," sucking the smoke through a straw.
text: He offers it to Rene, who refuses. He lights and hands Rene the
text: joint. Rene takes a hit. Jean takes it back.
text: Jean starts to work again.
text: The PUPPY runs around, chasing after him, getting in his way,
text: running across the paintings. Jean laughs, playing tag. The puppy
text: gets a hold of Jean's sleeve. It unravels about ten feet.
text: While Jean's playing, Rene spots a painting with the words
dialog: "Famous Negro Athletes."
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Oh man! That's one looks famous already.
text: Without hearing him, Jean walks towards the painting and with a
text: swipe, paints out what Rene is pointing to.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: You are a willful boy. How'm I s'posed to
dialog: write about you if you keep changing
dialog: everything?
text: The phone RINGS... Jean ignores it. Rene gets it -
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: Uh huhh... Band practice?
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: It's Benny. He wants to know why you're not
dialog: at band practice...?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Fuck...
dialog: (to Rene)
dialog: I forgot about that.
text: He sets his brush down.
text: Rene hold the phone against his leg.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Fuck band practice... If you're gonna be a
dialog: painter you're gonna have to break a few
dialog: hearts - you don't wanna be like Tony
dialog: Bennett..
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Tony Bennett... What do you mean?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Singing on stage and painting in your spare
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I didn't know Tony Bennett painted.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: My point exactly.
text: Jean picks up the phone... All he hears is a DIAL TONE.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: So keep painting.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yes, Boss.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: If you're so smart, why are you here with
dialog: me in this basement?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: You're news. I want the scoop. I write it
dialog: down. When I speak, no one believes me. But
dialog: when I write it down, people know it's
dialog: true.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: There's never been a black painter in art
dialog: history that's been considered really
dialog: important, you know?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: So what?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: So shut up and keep painting..
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (touched)
dialog: What time is it?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: 5:11.
text: Jean regards a near-finished painting. He writes "5:11" on it. He
text: crosses it out and re-writes it, "Rene 5:11." Rene looks pleased.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: That one's for you.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Thanks... I'll take it tonight.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I can't. After the show.
text: Jean continues painting. Rene slumps down onto the floor, happy -
text: a parasite content to have a host, impressed with Jean's
text: limitless energy. Rene closes his eyes.
speaker_heading: BLACK
scene_heading: INT. ANNINA'S BASEMENT - LATER
text: Jean is bent over his work. He looks to see a pair of legs. They
dialog: belong to Albert Milo.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hey - it's the big A.M..
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: Rene's been telling me about your work.
text: Milo takes his time looking at the paintings.
text: Jean continues to work, never wanting to appear impressed by
text: anyone. He walks on top of the paintings.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO (CONT'D)
dialog: Is this finished yet?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: When's your show?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Not sure. How was yours?
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: I haven't decided yet.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Rene, you wanna come over to the studio
dialog: tomorrow. I wanna make a painting of you.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: How about now?
text: Rene shrugs to Jean. He prepares to leave.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: See you at your opening. Thanks.
text: Albert and Rene begin to ascend the stairs. Jean continues
text: painting. The dog leaves with Rene and Albert.
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Ohhh, Albert Milo, what a pleasure to meet
dialog: you.
text: Jean's brush stops.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO (O.S.)
dialog: This is Rene Ricard.
text: Jean paints over the words "Rene 5:11."
text: We hear FOOTSTEPS COMING DOWN THE STAIRS. The woman continues -
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: We're Tom and Cynthia Kruger - nice to have
dialog: met you.
speaker_heading: JEAN'S POV
text: We see Annina's legs coming down the stairs.
speaker_heading: REVEAL
text: A man wearing a pin-striped suit and gold-rimmed glasses. The
text: woman is wrapped in a cashmere shawl.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI (O.S)
dialog: Tom and Cynthia Kruger.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (O.S)
dialog: I know.
text: We SEE that Jean continues to paint, looking down.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: This is Jean Michel Basquiat.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You've seen the SAMO graffiti everywhere.
dialog: That's his. This is the true voice of the
text: gutter.
text: As she speaks, Jean squirms. He grabs a banana from a fruit bowl.
text: Without peeling it, he takes a big bite. And another. And
text: another. Everyone looks uncomfortable. Annina starts showing them
dialog: the paintings.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA KRUGER
dialog: We've seen the graffiti. I work on Wall
dialog: Street. And I've heard wonderful things
dialog: about the paintings. Everybody's talking
dialog: about you.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah.
text: He looks up at them, eating the banana.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: Here's a very good example of his recent
dialog: work that's not spoken for yet.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He's got to work in a basement. He's got so
dialog: much energy that if he worked in a place
text: with a window, he'd jump right through it.
dialog: Most of these are reserved already. After
dialog: this week, this work will not be available.
speaker_heading: TOM KRUGER
dialog: (to his wife)
dialog: ... I don't know.... This one's nice, but I
dialog: don't know if I could live with it. That
dialog: green is so... institutional.
text: He (Kruger) looks up to see two KIDS enter - young black artists,
dialog: one of whom we saw with Rene at the loft party.
text: They walk right into the middle of the room, completely oblivious
text: to the presence of Annina and the Krugers..
speaker_heading: KID #1
dialog: (enthusiastically)
dialog: Yo, man, you're a damn lucky nigger selling
dialog: this shit!
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You like it?
speaker_heading: KID #1
dialog: Not bad. Yeah, I do.
text: The Krugers hem and haw in front of the painting next to Jean.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA KRUGER
dialog: I'm fascinated by his choice of crossing
dialog: out words that way.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: Yes, well, they are more meaningful in
dialog: their absence, no?
speaker_heading: KID #1
dialog: (to Jean, joking)
dialog: What does it mean?
text: Jean paints the words "Rene 5:11" back into a painting. They
dialog: ignore the kid..
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA KRUGER
dialog: I like this one, but that green...
text: Suddenly, we see LEGS coming down the stairs. It's Gina. Everyone
text: looks at her.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Y'want me to make it a nice shit brown?
speaker_heading: TOM KRUGER
dialog: Beg pardon?
text: Gina hadn't expected to find herself in the middle of this scene.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hi. This is Gina.
text: Annina nods to her.
text: Gina nods to the group.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA KRUGER
dialog: They're something like Dubuffet's...
dialog: That... childlike quality.
text: Gina tries to connect with Jean. He's cold.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA KRUGER (CONT'D)
dialog: (to her husband and Annina)
dialog: I can't make up my mind.
speaker_heading: TOM KRUGER
dialog: I like this one. If it were just another
dialog: color..
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Get a fucking decorator. If you buy one,
dialog: you'll have to change your whole lives -
dialog: maybe even sell your kids!
dialog: (to Annina)
dialog: These paintings aren't even done yet!!!
text: He sets his brush down. As he leaves -
speaker_heading: TOM KRUGER (O.S.)
dialog: I think we'll take the green one.
speaker_heading: HOLD ON:
text: Gina, left standing in the middle of this.
scene_heading: INT. MCDONALDS - DAY
text: CLOSE ON McDonald's COUNTERMAN. He smiles.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'll take three big Macs, two chocolate
text: shakes, two orders of fries, and an apple
dialog: pie.
speaker_heading: COUNTERMAN
dialog: You want three Big Macs, two chocolate
text: shakes, two orders of fries, and an apple
dialog: pie.
text: A line begins forming behind Jean.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Forget it .I'll take six, no, seven
dialog: chocolate shakes, an order of fries, a Big
text: Mac, and two apple pies.
speaker_heading: COUNTERMAN
dialog: You only want one Big Mac?
text: The people in line are beginning to get impatient.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah... And make it three apple pies.
scene_heading: EXT. SOHO STREET - DAY
text: Jean leans on a fire hydrant, eating a Big Mac.
text: A pink scarf blows on the wind right in front of his face. He
dialog: catches it.
text: A BOMBSHELL BLONDE arrives with her hand outstretched to retrieve
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: BIG PINK
dialog: How can I ever thank you?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (with a smile)
dialog: I'd like to squeeze your titties.
text: He offers her a Big Mac.
speaker_heading: BIG PINK
dialog: Come on.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Wanna Mac?
speaker_heading: BIG PINK
dialog: No, I'd like the scarf.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Have a Mac.
speaker_heading: BIG PINK
dialog: I don't eat junk food.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Oh. I didn't know. I'll take you to the
dialog: best restaurant in town.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You'll miss a great meal and I'll keep the
dialog: scarf, anyway. What's your name?
speaker_heading: BIG PINK
dialog: You're a fast mover.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: No name? That's ok. I'll just call you Big
dialog: Pink.
text: A man sleeping on the ground with a beehive of paper bags on his
text: head and three overcoats sticks out into the sidewalk.
text: Jean leaves the McDonald's bag near his head as he walks down the
text: street with the girl.
scene_heading: INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Jean enters the apartment.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: A present I picked up for you.
text: Gina holds the scarf up and looks at it.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: It's beautiful. Thanks.
text: As she holds it up he puts it around her neck and kisses her.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (tenderly)
dialog: You look like an angel.
scene_heading: INT. ANNINA NOSEI GALLERY - NIGHT
dialog: Silence.
scene_heading: CLOSE UP PAINTING
dialog: We read the words:
speaker_heading: "BOOM #2
text: A CAT POURING TACKS ON ITS TONGUE"
text: SOMEONE (the big red-haired dealer we met earlier) walks in front
dialog: of us.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal a crowd in a gallery. It is literally
text: filled with people. Again - all this takes place in silence.
text: We begin to HEAR Peggy Lee's "Is That All There Is?" It colors
text: the motion of the crowd.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PRINCE ST (BET. MERCER AND WOOSTER) - DUSK
text: Jean walks down the street. He's got on a new set of clothes and
text: he listens to a Walkman. We HEAR Miles Davis' "Flamenco
dialog: Sketches."
speaker_heading: JEAN'S POV
text: We MOVE down Prince St. and take a left on West Broadway. We
text: approach a huge crowd. We get closer and closer until we are
text: immersed in it.
text: The crowd realizes Jean's amongst them. People start approaching
text: him. Someone removes the headphones.
text: The DIN of the crowd replaces the music. Amongst the normal crowd
text: chatter, we hear friends' calling out:
scene_heading: VOICES IN CROWD
dialog: Jean!!! Jean Michel!!!
scene_heading: INT. ANNINA NOSEI GALLERY
text: Annina beckons to him. Beyond her, he sees Albert, Andy, and
text: Bruno. He's being escorted or maybe just pushed - it's hard to
text: tell. Each step of the way, he's pounced upon by INDIVIDUALS
text: we've never met. The room is wall-to-wall with people. People are
text: swept along in currents.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (wildly enthusiastic)
dialog: Jean, man!!! Let's make a record!
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: (slyly, intimately)
dialog: You finally did it.
speaker_heading: MAN #2
text: (pointing to Jean, sneering)
dialog: He's so fulla shit.
speaker_heading: MAN #3 (O.S.)
dialog: How much is he getting for these?
text: Jean walks up to Andy Warhol.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Andy, man, thanks for coming. I'd like to
dialog: paint your jacket.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: My jacket? Gee, great...
dialog: (he Polaroids Jean)
dialog: Your show looks great. Quite a turnout. You
dialog: look great. You kids. You drink red wine
dialog: with fish. You can do anything! Make
dialog: paintings in the basement of your gallery?
dialog: First time I've heard of that!
text: They are approached by Mary Boone, a short woman in high heels
dialog: and an Armani suit).
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL (CONT'D)
dialog: Jean Michel, this is Mary Boone. She's got
dialog: the great new gallery.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah, I met her already.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: (shaking Jean's hand)
dialog: You should be pleased. It's a great
dialog: show...I'm having a dinner later at Mr.
dialog: Chow's for Albert. You should come.
text: In the background, we see Annina watching.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: You'll like it. Everyone'll be there.
text: Annina walks over to Jean with a COUPLE.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: Jean, your parents are here.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hi Dad. Hi Nora.
speaker_heading: NORA
dialog: Congratulations.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Thanks for coming.
text: Rene appears out of the crowd.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: (continuing to Jean's father)
dialog: You must be very proud.
speaker_heading: FATHER
dialog: I am!
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: How does it feel to have a genius in the
dialog: family?
speaker_heading: FATHER
dialog: It feels... good!
text: Jean notices Benny across the room. He slows down and waves.
text: Jean sees Gina across the room wearing the scarf.
text: Just beyond her, he sees Big Pink approaching.
text: There must be ten people between them.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (to Rene)
dialog: I'll be right back.
text: He moves towards her. Suddenly, directly in front of him are the
dialog: Krugers.
speaker_heading: TOM KRUGER
dialog: We love our painting.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Which painting?
speaker_heading: TOM KRUGER
dialog: The green one.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Oh yeah.
speaker_heading: CYNTHIA KRUGER
dialog: We got a couch to match.
speaker_heading: TOM KRUGER
dialog: She's only kidding!
text: Looking past the Krugers, Jean looks for Gina. He sees her. His
text: path is blocked.
text: He presses forward, looking for Gina, getting caught in the
dialog: crowd.
text: Jean strains to keep an eye on Gina and Big Pink..
text: Benny arrives at Jean's side holding a bottle of Jack Daniels and
text: a shot glass.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Willie Mays. A Toast.
text: Jean brushes past him.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Not now, ok?
text: Benny is left standing next to Andy holding the bottle.
text: Jean manages to advance a few more feet through the crowd, then
text: runs smack into Rockets, his drug dealer.
speaker_heading: ROCKETS
dialog: Jean Michel, my man. Nice party. Should we
dialog: step into my office?
text: Nearby, Benny sees this meeting and walks off, disgusted,
text: thinking this is why Jean gave him the brush off.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: That's alright. I'm cool now.
text: Jean looks off and sees Big Pink fingering the scarf, saying
dialog: something to Gina.
text: Gina slaps her in the face.
text: Jean tries to get around the dealer.
text: Gina turns to leave. She catches Jean's eye.
text: She walks out.
speaker_heading: ROCKETS
dialog: A gift! I was just trying to give you a
dialog: gift!
text: The dealer palms something to Jean.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I gotta go.
text: Jean steps away from Rockets, but is trapped in the crowd.
text: Rockets looks after him with disappointment.
text: Rene arrives with, Andy, Bruno, and a PHOTOGRAPHER.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: (edging his way in)
dialog: This guy wants a picture.
text: They shrug and crowd in - Jean, Andy, and Rene. The photographer
text: gets them to squeeze closer and closer.
speaker_heading: PHOTOGRAPHER
dialog: Of the painters, please.
text: There's not enough room. Rene accidentally gets pushed out of
dialog: frame.
text: Rene fumes. Albert Milo arrives with his parents (JACK AND ESTHER
text: MILO). They are a nice Jewish couple in their 70's.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: He said 'of the painters!' Hey - Albert!
dialog: Get in the picture!
text: Albert crowds in. The photographer SNAPS a picture and the FLASH
text: blinds everyone momentarily.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: Hey, Jean, I'd like you to meet my
dialog: wife....and my parents. Mom, Dad, this is
dialog: Jean Michel Basquiat.
text: Jean pulls out a joint and lights it as if it were a cigarette.
text: He offers it to Albert, who takes a hit.
speaker_heading: ESTHER MILO
dialog: (frowning at her son)
dialog: Don't do that.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hello, Jean.
speaker_heading: JACK MILO
dialog: Hi, John... Are your parents here?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Well.
dialog: (inhaling)
dialog: My dad's here with his wife. My mom
dialog: couldn't make it.
text: He offers the joint to Albert's mother.
speaker_heading: ESTHER MILO
dialog: (waving it away)
dialog: No thanks.
text: Everyone laughs.
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: I'd like to do a show with you.
dialog: (pointing to "Rene 5:11"
dialog: painting)
dialog: I'm especially interested in that one. I'd
dialog: like to buy it for myself.
text: Jean spots the very word on the painting ("Rene 5:11") and
text: freezes for a second.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I wasn't gonna sell this one.
text: He looks around the room for Rene, but doesn't see him. Bruno
text: remains smiling, waiting for an answer.
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: You shouldn't have put it in the show. This
dialog: is the one I absolutely have to have. I
dialog: really love it.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Sure, ok..
text: Jean wants out. He feels compromised.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you think I could borrow your limousine?
dialog: I'll get it back to you in an hour.
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: It's OK. Just have him bring you to dinner
dialog: at Mr. Chow's later. We'll be there.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Bye, Jean.
text: Jean makes his way through the crowd, as we see images of the
text: crowd and fragments of paintings. As he nears the door, he feels
text: his arm pulled.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: (hissing)
dialog: You fucking little whore! You sold my
dialog: painting! I'm gonna tell you something,
dialog: brother - when you're climbing up the
dialog: ladder of success, don't kick out the
dialog: rungs! Believe that shit.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'll make you another one.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Forget it.
text: He pulls out a scrap of paper and starts writing.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Rene -
text: Rene shushes him... He hisses loudly, like a cat.
speaker_heading: RENE
text: SHHHHHH. Later.
dialog: (speaking to himself)
dialog: "What is it about art, anyway......"
text: Jean pauses. He turns around and surveys the room once more.
text: A blink.
dialog: Silence.
text: We see the crowd in SLOW MOTION.
text: Everyone's eyes are shut.
speaker_heading: RENE (O.S.; CONT'D)
dialog: ... that we give it so much importance?
dialog: Artists are respected by the poor because
dialog: what they do is an honest way to get out of
dialog: the slum using one's sheer self as the
dialog: medium. The money earned is proof pure and
dialog: simple of the value of that individual...
dialog: The Artist.
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. GALLERY - NIGHT
text: The CAMERA rises higher and higher over the crowd and follows
text: Jean as he makes his way toward the street.
text: We begin to DISSOLVE into a MONTAGE of stills of ARTISTS:
speaker_heading: RENE (O.S.CONT'D)
text: The picture a mother's son does in jail
text: hangs on her wall as proof that beauty is
dialog: possible even in the most wretched. And
dialog: this is a much different idea than the
dialog: fancier notion that art is a scam and a
dialog: rip-off. But you could never explain to
dialog: someone who uses God's gift to enslave that
dialog: you have used God's gift to be free."
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Jean enters a waiting limo. It pulls away from the curb.
text: Rene finishes as the limo threads its way through the night-lit,
text: twinkling city.
scene_heading: INT. LIMO - NIGHT
text: The DRIVER is the young Rasta we saw earlier outside Ballato's
text: driving Bruno and Andy.
text: Jean slumps in the back seat.
text: The driver can't help staring in the rearview mirror.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: I really... admire you.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Me? Why?
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: You did it! You made it. I'm a painter,
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: That's great.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Would you check out my studio some time?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Sure. I'd be glad to.
text: The limo pulls over.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Here?
text: Quickly, Jean gets out of the limo. He leaves the door open.
text: The DRIVER watches as Jean talks to two DRUG DEALERS.
text: Jean jumps back into the limo.
text: The driver pulls away. In the rearview mirror, he sees Jean
text: separate a bag from a bundle of ten. He rips it open and snorts
text: directly from it.
text: He lays his head back and takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (calm, relieved)
dialog: What's your name, man?
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: They call me Steve, but I prefer Shenge.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Nice to meet you, Shenge. Want a job?
scene_heading: INT. MR. CHOW'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: An elegant Chinese restaurant on the Upper East Side. The dining
text: room is split level with a mezzanine reserved for celebrities and
dialog: special friends of the owner.
text: At the podium, the MAITRE'D approaches.
speaker_heading: MAITRE'D
dialog: Good evening.
text: From behind the Maitre'd on the mezzanine we see Bruno waving to
dialog: Jean.
text: In the dining room on the lower level sit Annina and Rene.
text: Nearby, at another, smaller table, are seated DAVID MCDERMOTT and
text: PETER MCGOUGH, two artists dressed in Victorian attire.
text: Annina beckons him.
text: Rene looks away from him and talks to a WAITER. Jean waves to
text: Annina and continues towards Bruno's table.
text: Seated at a large table are Andy, Bruno, Albert Milo, his wife
text: and parents, Henry Geldzahler, MELINA PORTOS (a young heiress)
text: and FRANCESCO and ALBA CLEMENTE and Mary Boone. Dinner's already
dialog: served.
text: At the large table, everyone watches as Milo makes a portrait of
text: Francesco in a beautiful leatherbound book. It belongs to Mr.
text: Chow, who is nearby at the bar.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Hi, Jean.
text: He motions to Mr. Chow to set a chair for Jean between Mary Boone
dialog: and himself.
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: Jean, everyone loved your show.
text: As Jean is seated, Andy and Jack Milo resume conversation -
speaker_heading: JACK MILO
dialog: Nixon lives in Saddle River, New York.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Saddle River's in New Jersey.
speaker_heading: JACK MILO
dialog: Saddle River, New York!
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: It's in New Jersey.
speaker_heading: JACK MILO
dialog: New York.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: I think it's in New Jersey.
speaker_heading: JACK MILO
dialog: It's in New York.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Oh, I didn't know that.
text: CLOSE UP: Jean smiles at Andy's diplomacy.
text: Albert finishes drawing his portrait: it's Francesco with his arm
text: around a headless torso.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: (to Francesco)
dialog: You finish it.
text: He pushes the book across the table.
text: Francesco begins to draw.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: I hear your show was sold out already.
dialog: There's a very important collector who's
dialog: interested in some of your works.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Bring him over sometime. I have some other
dialog: stuff to show him.
text: Annina watches from the other table as Jean talks to Mary.
text: Francesco finishes his drawing.
text: Albert takes the book and passes it to Jean.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO (CONT'D)
dialog: Go on, take it..
text: Jean takes it. Mr. Chow watches his book change hands.
text: Jean takes a bowl of moo-shoo pork in front of him and dumps it
text: onto the book. Then he uses a piece of pork to draw a head.
text: Suddenly, there's a shrill, familiar voice.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: I'd like a glass of your best champagne,
dialog: please?
dialog: (reading)
dialog: This is an enormously important season in
dialog: New York, and to make a false step could
dialog: have severe repercussions for years. We are
dialog: no longer collecting art, we're buying
dialog: individuals.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Oh shut up, Rene.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Everything's over your head, Andy. Even Mr.
dialog: Chow's menu.
dialog: (beat - to Jean)
dialog: Thanks for not inviting me
text: He leans over everyone and helps himself to some spears of
dialog: asparagus.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON
text: Esther Milo, watching.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm starving. You can't buy advertising
dialog: like this. This is the most glamorous
dialog: dinner you'll have here this fall. How
dialog: about some of that imitation crab?
speaker_heading: MR. CHOW
dialog: I'm not paying for the drawing with crab.
dialog: It's a present to my friends. It's my
dialog: birthday.
text: Jean finishes his drawing - a big beautiful head that fills the
dialog: screen.
text: Rene grabs it from him. He holds it up for everyone to see.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Isn't he great? Thanks, Jean.
text: He rips the page from the book.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: He owes me one.
text: Everyone's face drops. Mr. Chow grabs his book. He motions to a
dialog: couple WAITERS -
speaker_heading: MR. CHOW
dialog: You're too much, Rene. Get this guy out of
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: I haven't eaten yet!!!
text: The waiters grab Rene's arms.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hands off me, you faggots! I'm going. I'm
dialog: going...I've kept Diana Vreeland waiting
dialog: too long, anyway.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Wow... That was a nice drawing, too, Jean.
dialog: Maybe you should do another one.
speaker_heading: MR. CHOW
dialog: (exhausted)
dialog: Some other time.
text: Spontaneously, David McDermott climbs onto the tabletop
text: downstairs and sings "Paris Je T'aime."
text: As he belts it out in a theatrical falsetto, he glides over
text: glasses and plates, executing a leap to another table in mid-
dialog: song.
text: The restaurant staff and OTHER DINNER GUESTS watch, agape.
scene_heading: CLOSE UP - DAVID'S SHOES.
text: As David dances, Annina walks over to the table, greeting people
dialog: and saying goodnight.
speaker_heading: ANNINA NOSEI
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: It's great that people are interested, but
dialog: if anyone's going to buy anything, I'll
dialog: handle it for you. Everything goes through
dialog: the gallery, even if they come to your
dialog: studio.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Sure.
text: Annina leaves.
text: Jean leans back in his chair, taking in this splendid new world.
text: He pulls out a joint, lights up, inhales with pleasure, closes
text: his eyes and smiles.
scene_heading: SUPER OVER HIS FACE: "FOUR YEARS LATER"
scene_heading: SCREEN GOES BLACK
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
dialog: ... had twenty-three one man shows, been in
dialog: forty three group shows from Zurich to
dialog: Tokyo..
speaker_heading: FADE UP
scene_heading: INT. GREAT JONES STREET LOFT - DAY
text: Note: The following scene is shot in documentary style.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (O.S, CONT'D)
dialog: ... had over fifty articles written about
dialog: you, switched galleries - how many times? -
dialog: DJ'd in the hottest clubs -
text: Jean looks out the window, yawns and rubs his eyes. He now sports
text: dreadlocks bundled into groups of spikes sticking out of his
text: head. He wears a wrinkled Wesleyan College T-shirt, paint-
text: splattered jeans, and no shoes; just out of bed, it would seem.
text: An INTERVIEWER - a balding Brit with all the humor of a bank
text: clerk - tries to buddy up with Jean on camera.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (CONT'D)
dialog: ... one of the youngest artists ever to be
dialog: included in the Whitney Biennial, also
dialog: produced a rap record. It's said you're
dialog: quite the ladies man - even dated Madonna
dialog: for a couple months!!!
dialog: (takes a breath)
dialog: All at the ripe old age of 24. One might
dialog: ask: is there anything left for Jean Michel
dialog: Basquiat to do?
text: Jean and the interviewer face each other in front of one of
text: Jean's paintings. Jean stares at the interviewer, incredulous.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (CONT'D)
dialog: What is it that gets you out of bed in the
dialog: morning?
dialog: (nervous laugh)
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I hate this. Turn that off.
text: Jean walks off camera and disappears into his bedroom.
text: Shenge (the former limo driver, now working as Jean's assistant)
text: assembles stretchers.
scene_heading: SUPER: "GREAT JONES STREET, 1985"
text: A CAMERA CREW waits in the room. Jean returns.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: We're running a little late.
text: He signals to the crew that he's beginning.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (CONT'D)
dialog: (to crew)
dialog: Ready?
text: He points to some scribbled words on the canvas.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (CONT'D)
dialog: ... Can you... decipher this for us?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Decipher?
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Yes. What do they... stand for?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: They're just words.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Yes, I understand - but where do you take
dialog: them from?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Where? Do you ask Miles where he got that
dialog: note from? Where do you take your words
dialog: from?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Everywhere.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: (pointing to a detail)
dialog: What are they?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (smiling mischievously)
text: Leeches. A long list of leeches.
dialog: (looking at some frames
dialog: Shenge's working on)
dialog: It looks good like that.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Hmmm. And 'Parasites.'
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You seem to be a Primal Expressionist.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You mean like an ape?
text: He grabs a huge double mouthful of French Fries and washes them
dialog: down with champagne..
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: (chewing, spilling)
dialog: A primate?
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Well, you said that.
dialog: (beat - looks at notes)
dialog: You've got a lot of references from
dialog: Leonardo da Vinci, don't you?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Oh, that's a "Leonardo's Greatest Hits"
dialog: painting. You like it?
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Yes, but as a black painter -
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I use a lot of colors - not only black.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'm not black.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: You're not?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Not what?
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Not black.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: No, I'm Haitian-Puerto Rican.
text: The BUZZER sounds. He signals for Steve not to answer the door.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Yes, yes... Let's talk about that.... your
dialog: roots... Your father is from Haiti, isn't
dialog: he?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (growing weary)
dialog: Yup.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Hmmmm. Interesting. And when you grew up
dialog: were there any primitives hanging in your
dialog: home?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: We don't hang them at home, y'know - just
text: in the streets..
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: I see..
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And... How do you respond to being called -
dialog: hmmm...
dialog: (peruses some notes)
dialog: - yes, "the pickaninny of the art world."
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (smiles - hurt, stunned)
dialog: Who said that?
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Why, that's from Time Magazine.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: No, he said I was the Eddie Murphy of the
dialog: art world. He said the Eddie Murphy.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Is it true that your mother resides in a
dialog: mental institution?
text: Jean walks off camera like he just received a punch in the
dialog: stomach.
text: The filming of the interview becomes increasingly erratic.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (CONT'D)
dialog: Let me... just... open something up here.
dialog: You come from a nice, middle class,
dialog: respectable home. Your father is an
dialog: accountant. Why did you at one time live in
dialog: a cardboard box in Tompkins Square?
text: Jean walks back into frame.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (CONT'D)
dialog: Or rather, do you think you're being
dialog: exploited or are you yourself exploiting
text: the white image of the black artist from
dialog: the ghetto?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Are those the only two possibilities?
dialog: (cramming a French Fry into
dialog: his mouth)
dialog: You wanna French fry?
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: OK. One last thing. Is there any anger in
dialog: you? Any anger in your work?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Should there be?
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: Tell me about it. What are you angry about?
text: Jean drifts off.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Mmmm. I don't know. I don't remember.
scene_heading: INT. FANCY GOURMET DELI - DAY
text: Jean and Andy browse through the aisles. Jean piles things into
dialog: his cart.
text: Jean approaches the specialty counter. Andy continues with the
dialog: cart.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
speaker_heading: (to COUNTERMAN)
dialog: Can I have some caviar, please?
text: The Counterman selects a miniscule plastic spoon of caviar and
text: begins to put it into a tiny glass jar.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: I'd like to taste it, first.
text: Reluctantly the Counterman gives him a taste with a look like
dialog: "what's a person who looks like you doing buying caviar?"
text: Jean tastes the caviar and hands him back the spoon.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: Is that the best quality you have?
speaker_heading: COUNTERMAN
dialog: Yeah, it's the best one.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'll take the whole tin.
speaker_heading: COUNTERMAN
dialog: It's three thousand dollars!
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'll take it.
dialog: (wipes nose with sleeve.)
dialog: Andy, gimme three thousand dollars.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Just the caviar - I'll get the rest.
text: He hands two one hundred dollar bills for the other items to the
text: counterman, who checks them carefully.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: You check everyone's bills or just mine?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WINDOW - DAY
text: A cheap pharmacy gift shop window. Jean and Andy look in on two
text: yellow furry stuffed ducks which are part of a larger display.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: When I was little, my brother and I used to
dialog: have two ducks as pets. We called them the
dialog: Rodriguez Brothers.
text: They walk into a beauty salon.
scene_heading: INT. BEAUTY SALON - DAY
text: Jean and Andy recline on the beautician's armchairs. THREE
text: BEAUTICIANS busy themselves with the two of them, simultaneously
text: giving them pedicures and manicures. Jean sets down a magazine.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I wish they'd quit writing this shit about
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: That's good. At least they're interested.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Everybody's paying top dollar for scraps of
dialog: paper, refrigerator doors - anything with a
text: SAMO tag on it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: The other day, I just wanted a pack of
dialog: cigarettes, so I did a drawing and sold it
dialog: for two bucks. A week later this gallery
dialog: calls me up: "Somebody's offering us the
dialog: drawing. Should we buy it for five
dialog: thousand?"
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Wow... Stop giving them away.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I got an invitation to model for Comme de
dialog: Garcons... You wanna do it with me?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah - I'd do that... You could teach me.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Gee. I don't need to. You're a natural. You
dialog: should sign up with my modeling agent.
text: Jean points to Andy's ankles - they have plastic flea collars on
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Cool.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: My dog, Archie... I woke up with flea
dialog: bites... Creepy. I ran out and bought flea
dialog: collars. They work really well.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Let's leave this town and go someplace.
dialog: Some island.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Let's go to the Carnegie Museum. They have
dialog: the world's most famous sculptures all in
dialog: these giant plaster replicas. It's really
dialog: great. It's in Pittsburg.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - - DAY
text: They walk out of the beauty salon..
text: Jean sees the back of a girl. She looks a lot like Gina.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Ouch..
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: That girl looks just like my old girlfriend
dialog: Gina.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Do you still love her?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah. I really blew it. I still think about
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Well, have you asked her to come back?
text: Jean shakes his head `no,' sorry that he didn't.
scene_heading: INT. BARBETTA'S (RESTAURANT) - DAY
text: A medium-sized dining room with dark wood paneling and tastefully
dialog: appointed furnishings.
text: Jean and Gina enter. Gina looks considerably more conservative
text: than previously - more like a student. Jean's dressed well, but
text: looks even more careworn than usual. His hair is tied back with a
text: necktie. He has a couple sores on his face. His skin looks a
dialog: little puffy.
text: The MAITRE'D smiles at Jean and bows -
speaker_heading: MAITRE'D
dialog: Mr. Basquiat - what a pleasure to see you
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hey George, what's up?
text: A huge table with NINE WHITE EXECUTIVES. WAITERS clear their
text: lunch settings. As they spot Jean and Gina entering, they gawk
text: and snicker.
text: George leads them to their table. As they take their seats, Jean
text: notices the suppressed giggles coming from the executives' table.
text: They try to ignore it. George disappears.
text: Jean seems self-conscious about the sores on his face.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: So are you really friends with Andy? He
dialog: seems like such a weirdo.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: He's not. He's out of town and he calls me
dialog: every day. What's weird about him?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Don't you think he's using you?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Why does everybody say that? He's the only
dialog: person I know who doesn't need to use me.
text: George reappears.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Would you like to see the wine list?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Chateau Latour '64, please.
text: George disappears again.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: So. Are you ready? I start Columbia next
dialog: fall. Of course, there's like, a year of
dialog: pre-med stuff, but - whatever. I'm really
dialog: excited.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And: Rene gave me a job as his secretary.
text: His poems are getting published.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: How is he?
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: Pretty much the same.
text: Jean's eyebrows go up.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Wow. Congratulations. I hate that asshole.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Thanks for coming. I guess I just wanted to
dialog: find out how you're -
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: (referring to an extra loud
dialog: snicker from execs)
dialog: What's that about?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Forget it.
text: George arrives and pours a sip for Jean to taste. He nods. George
text: moves off. Two or three of the executives break out laughing.
text: Jean puts the glass down and looks at them. The other table is
text: clearly making fun of him.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: That is amazing. What year is it?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: George?
text: George hurries over.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr. Basquiat.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: See that table over there? I'd like to pay
dialog: their bill.
dialog: Long silence.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I'm sorry?
text: Gina looks at Jean, confused.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah, just put their bill on my tab.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Very well.
text: He moves off towards the executives. George whispers to the HEAD
text: EXECUTIVE, and nods towards Jean. The executives spread the words
text: amongst themselves. They're horrified.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Baby, I think about you a lot. I'm really
dialog: sorry about everything. You have to believe
dialog: me. I'm serious. I wish, y'know, that we
dialog: were -
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: I don't believe it, Jean - they're picking
dialog: straws.
text: A YOUNG EXECUTIVE, obviously the loser, takes a deep breath and
text: heads towards them.
speaker_heading: YOUNG EXECUTIVE
dialog: Excuse me... On behalf of my friends I'd
dialog: like to apologize. We're really sorry.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I wish you niggahs could get it togeth-
dialog: ahhhhhh.
text: The Executive reaches to shake Jean's hand. Jean puts a hundred
text: dollar bill in his hand.
speaker_heading: YOUNG EXECUTIVE
dialog: What's this for?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: The tip.
text: Jean turns back to Gina. The Executive leaves them. George
dialog: smiles.
speaker_heading: GINA
dialog: You don't have to be sorry. There's no one
dialog: to blame. Jean, you're a real artist. I
dialog: thought I was one. You made me realize I
dialog: wasn't.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: What's his name?
text: Gina balks. Rather than face a disappointment -
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: I have to go to the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. BARBETTA'S (BATHROOM) - DAY
text: CLOSE ON JEAN - looking in the mirror.
text: He looks at himself.
text: He starts to pick at his face.
scene_heading: INT. PALLADIUM - HUGE ROOM - NIGHT
text: Jean and Albert Milo sit on a banquette
text: A huge white painting of Jean's with a dragon's head hangs on one
text: wall to their left. On the opposite wall in back of the bar hangs
text: another huge painting with a lot of heads, mostly black.
text: Lots of PEOPLE mill about a huge room.
text: A GIRL - another Gina look-alike walks through the crowd. Jean's
text: eyes follow her momentarily..
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (re: the paintings)
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: I like the one with the dragon's heads a
dialog: lot. But the black one's filled up with too
dialog: many heads...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'd take some of them out.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I think you're painting too fast. I
dialog: wouldn't put in so many heads. Let it
dialog: breathe a bit.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: It's always how you would do it. This is my
dialog: version.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: You're right. It's your version. You should
dialog: come over to the studio sometime.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Why, so you could humiliate me?
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: No, I wanted to make a painting of you.
scene_heading: EXT. UNION SQUARE PARK - DAY
text: Jean rides his bicycle through the park. He's looking up at the
text: birds flying in the trees.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON
text: The birds. We see the statue in the middle of the park, but we
text: have no idea where we are until we see the Mays Dept. Store sign.
text: The birds circle in flocks, never lighting on the trees.
scene_heading: EXT. THE FACTORY (ENTRANCE) - DAY
text: Jean presses a buzzer. He's admitted. He carries his bike on his
dialog: shoulder.
scene_heading: INT. THE FACTORY - DAY
text: Jean enters a broad, high-ceilinged studio. It's neat. Paintings
text: lie on the floor.
text: Andy's back is turned to him. As Jean gets closer, he sees that
text: Andy's assistant FRANK is peeing on canvas covered with copper
text: pigment. We hear the SOUND of the piss.
text: Frank holds a bottle of beer in his hand.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: A little more to the right, Frank. OK...
dialog: Good. Now up... You got a little more?
text: Jean notices a bunch of Andy's wigs on a desk.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: What's with the wigs?
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: I'm going to send them to my friends for
dialog: Christmas presents.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You think those are good presents? Who
dialog: wants an old wig?
text: Jean makes a grimace. He walks up to the painting Frank's peeing
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Piss painting?
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: I wanted to make a few more of these.
dialog: Frank's been drinking this Mexican beer. It
dialog: makes a good green.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: How come you're not peeing on them
dialog: yourself?
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: I don't like beer.
text: Looking down at the painting -
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: If you ever want me to shit on 'em, just
dialog: ask. You could finger paint.
scene_heading: INT. THE FACTORY - LATER
text: Jean and Andy collaborate on a large canvas. Andy outlines a
text: Mobil Oil winged horse.
text: Jean paints it out. To the side he paints a penguin with a hat.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: That was my favorite part!
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: We can do better. It needed more white.
text: Andy watches as Jean lights a joint and continues working on his
dialog: penguin.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Jean, you make me feel worthless. You're so
dialog: famous.
text: Andy paints an Amoco logo next to the penguin.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I don't even have any friends anymore
dialog: besides you. And everyone says "Warhol?
dialog: That death-warmed over person on drugs?
dialog: He's just using you."
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Gee. You shouldn't take it so seriously,
dialog: Jean. That's why you can't stop taking
dialog: drugs. You always think people don't like
dialog: you. Everyone likes you.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: People are only interested in you because
dialog: you're famous, not because they know a
dialog: fuckin' thing about your work.
text: Jean paints out part of Andy's logo.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: Bruno called. In Europe, people are saying
dialog: you're gonna die from drugs. They think
dialog: they can cash in on your death.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: When I was poor, everybody doubted I could
dialog: make it. When I got rich, everyone said,
dialog: `yeah, but he'll never keep it up.' Now
dialog: everyone says `he's killing himself.' So I
dialog: clean up, and then they say `Look. His
dialog: art's dead.' I don't take drugs, anyway.
dialog: I'm healthy now.
text: Jean obliterates Andy's logo.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: If you say so. You sleep until 5:00 p.m.
dialog: You call at four in the morning. You never
dialog: show up anywhere on time - if you show up.
dialog: You're painting out everything I do!
text: Andy paints back in part of the horse.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: That's better.
text: Jean adds some letters on top of Andy's logo.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: I can't even see what's good anymore.
text: Jean Michel obliterates the rest of the logo with some white.
text: Andy steps back and squints as he examines Jean's work.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL (CONT'D)
dialog: Yeah, I see what you mean about the white.
dialog: It's better.
text: Jean quits painting.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: After the show we should take a nice long
dialog: vacation. Maybe go to Hawaii. That's what
dialog: I'm gonna do. I'm going to give up painting
dialog: and start playing music again. I wanna
dialog: sing.
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: That would be a pity because you're a real
dialog: painter.
text: Frank arrives.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Here's the poster for the show.
text: He presents them with a yellow poster of Jean and Andy facing
text: each other with boxing gloves.
scene_heading: INT. FACTORY - NEXT DAY
text: Shenge hands Andy a box.
text: Andy opens the box. Inside is a football helmet with Jean's
text: dreadlocks glued to the outside.
text: CLOSE UP: Andy in mirror wearing helmet.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: INSERT
text: The screen is filled with the cover of the New York Times
text: Magazine. Jean is featured on the cover, without his dreadlocks.
scene_heading: INT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - NIGHT
text: As Shenge opens the door, a CROWD of people spill out. They pour
text: into the loft. The studio is crowded with PEOPLE. (Many of them
text: we recognize from earlier scenes in Mudd Club, Jean's opening,
text: etc). On the wall there is a portrait of Jean by Andy. The
text: background is a piss painting.
text: Inside, Jean kneels on the floor in the corner of the loft with a
text: bunch of people around him - girls, mostly. Twenty-five copies of
text: the Times Magazine lay stacked on the floor.
text: Crouching on one knee, Jean signs a copy for a BRUNETTE.
dialog: Looking up -
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Name?
speaker_heading: BRUNETTE
dialog: Elke.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Number?
speaker_heading: BRUNETTE
text: 505-0236.
text: A BRUNETTE walks up -
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Name?
speaker_heading: BLONDE
dialog: Monica.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Number?
speaker_heading: BLONDE
dialog: 477-0258.
text: Andy's assistant, Frank, arrives with CHRISTINE, 25, a model.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yo, Frank.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: This is really great. What a nice place.
text: Jean is taken with Christine.
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
dialog: Have you met Christine?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I don't think so.
text: He's thrown off his rhythm.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Would you sign one of those for me?
text: TOXIC (seen with Rene at loft party earlier) spots Jean and steps
dialog: in.
speaker_heading: TOXIC
dialog: YO! Jean, this is Ramellzee.
speaker_heading: RAMMELLZEE
dialog: Yo... You know why Rammellzee's here, don't
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: TOXIC
dialog: Uh-oh!
speaker_heading: RAMMELLZEE
dialog: I'm here for an interrogation. You've been
dialog: called a graffiti artist and I wanna know
text: why. All I see are scribble scrabble
dialog: abstractions!
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Boom.
speaker_heading: RAMMELLZEE
dialog: Boom? As in ordnance? Are your letters
dialog: armed? What is the prime directive of
dialog: graffiti culture? Do you know, black man?
text: Jean likes Rammellzee enough to be patient... Toxic grins and
text: rolls his eyes to Jean. Jean watches Christine as they go on.
speaker_heading: TOXIC
dialog: (to Ram, re: Jean)
dialog: Man, I was up on him years ago on the IRT.
speaker_heading: RAMMELLZEE
dialog: You're selling and ending the culture. Not
dialog: one bit of information. Only to get the
text: money and growl with the power, man.
speaker_heading: TOXIC
dialog: That's ignorant.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: That ain't ignorant - that's just stupid.
dialog: (beat - to Christine)
dialog: Can I get you a bowl of gumbo?
text: Rammellzee yells after him -
speaker_heading: RAMMELLZEE
dialog: This interrogation is not over!
text: Jean escorts Christine to the kitchen.
text: Bruno and Andy stand in the crowd.
text: Nearby are two WOMEN.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Albert Milo? Ugh! He's just a pressmonger.
dialog: That's all these people do.
speaker_heading: WOMAN #2
dialog: You know, I love Jean's early work. It's
dialog: really got something. But this
dialog: collaboration with Andy - maybe they
dialog: thought it was a joke... I mean - whose
dialog: work is it? Jean's or Andy's?
text: Walking by, Rene responds to this -
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: His early work? He's only twenty-six!
text: Rene walks over to Jean.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hey, Rene.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Thanks again for not inviting me. I'm only
dialog: here on business.
text: Rene heads back out into the party.
text: Jean eats gumbo while Christine thumbs through the Times
dialog: Magazine.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON
text: Rene responds to something Andy's been telling him in a low
dialog: voice.
speaker_heading: RENE (CONT'D)
dialog: (loudly)
dialog: You're asking me? Nigga, please. After the
dialog: way you treated me? This is the first time
dialog: I've heard from either of you in months! I
dialog: had to crash this party! You treated me
dialog: like a suede biscuit. Rene don't play that!
dialog: I can't get him off drugs! I don't even
dialog: talk to him any more!!!
speaker_heading: ANDY WARHOL
dialog: (to Bruno)
dialog: What's a suede biscuit?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: CHRISTINELooks up from her magazine..
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: (amused)
dialog: Hey, what's this? It says right here you're
dialog: Andy's... "lapdog"...
text: Jean walks away.
text: He passes through the crowd, making his way to the door.
text: He exits.
scene_heading: EXT. GREAT JONES ST LOFT - NIGHT
text: Drugged, upset, Jean leaves the party.
text: He opens a limo door and looks back at his house. The party
dialog: continues.
text: The limo drives off.
text: We HOLD on Jean's building.
scene_heading: INT. LIMO - NIGHT
text: The limo floats through the streets.
text: Jean stares out the window.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Here... Pull over.
text: The limo pulls over.
text: Jean exits.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Jean disappears around the corner.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON
text: THREE KIDS in the process of prying a door panel with crowbars.
text: We see that they're removing one of Jean's SAMO pieces from a
dialog: wall. We read:
dialog: "PAY FOR SOUP
speaker_heading: BUILD A FORT
dialog: SET IT ON FIRE"
text: Jean arrives behind them.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: What's up?
speaker_heading: KID #1
dialog: Mind your own fuckin' business.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (recognizing his work)
dialog: That's mine.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: That ain't yours, man. Some asshole named
dialog: SAMO did this.
speaker_heading: KID#3
dialog: He's dead. That's what I heard.
speaker_heading: KID #2
dialog: He ain't dead yet. He's gonna kill himself.
dialog: That's why all those art fags in Soho are
dialog: paying more every time we bring one of
dialog: these in.
speaker_heading: KID #1
dialog: Stupid SAMO... Hardly any of this shit
dialog: left.
text: The panel is almost pried free without a scratch.
speaker_heading: KID #3
dialog: This one's damn nice. I say we hang onto it
text: if he's almost dead.
text: Jean shoves his way in front with a magic marker and adds a
dialog: couple words; now it reads:
dialog: "SAMO IS DEAD"
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: There you go. Now it's worth more.
text: The kids are outraged, thinking Jean's ruined their find.
text: They jump on him.
dialog: They beat the shit out of him.
dialog: They're done.
text: Jean lies curled up on the ground, trying to talk.
speaker_heading: KID #2
dialog: What's he saying?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'm SAMO... I'm SAMO...
speaker_heading: KID #3
dialog: (bending close)
dialog: He says he's SAMO.
text: Kid #1 whacks him in the back once more for good measure.
speaker_heading: KID #1
dialog: He wish.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: THE SEA
text: It is flat, dead, gray.
text: Ominous and waiting.
scene_heading: INT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - DAY
text: Washed in sunlight, a large painting leans against the wall, the
text: words "HAITIAN BASEBALL FACTORIES" scrawled through its center.
text: Jean lays down, watching TV.
text: He looks older now, more worn. His face is slightly swollen. His
text: complexion is discolored.
text: Shenge covers a triptych with wide brush strokes of yellow paint.
text: He circles a large, primitive figure of a black man drawn with
text: magic marker in the center. He is careful to leave the figure
dialog: intact.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Paint it out.
speaker_heading: SHENGE
dialog: Out?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Yeah... Maybe just his arms.
dialog: (Shenge paints out the arms)
dialog: Put some Cerulean Blue there.
text: Jean points to the lower corner.
text: Shenge picks up the phone, which has been RINGING for some time.
speaker_heading: SHENGE
text: It's Andy again.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Still not here.
speaker_heading: SHENGE
dialog: - In this corner?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: (not looking)
dialog: Yeah..
text: Shenge changes the brush and dips it in the can.
speaker_heading: SHENGE
dialog: You want me to put it here?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Use your fucking instinct.
text: Shenge shrugs and starts to spread the blue. Jean looks at his
dialog: work.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't try to make art. Just paint like a
dialog: housepainter.
text: A woman's shout can be heard through the open window. Shenge
text: looks out.
speaker_heading: SHENGE
dialog: It's Maria Portos. What should we do?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Why don't you try letting her in, Steve - I
dialog: mean Shenge.
speaker_heading: SHENGE
dialog: Get up. She won't buy anything if she sees
dialog: me working on it!
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Wanna bet? If you show too much respect for
dialog: people with money, they don't have respect
dialog: for you.
text: MARIA, a raven-haired, sharp-featured beauty in a Chanel suit
text: jacket, blue jeans, and pearls walks into the room. She's with
text: ELLEN - younger - a millionaire fake hippie from Texas.
text: Maria carries a bag with clogs in it - a present for Jean. She
text: takes them out.
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: (showing him the clogs)
dialog: These reminded me of you, the clogs. I
dialog: found them in Amsterdam.
text: Jean doesn't get up from the floor.
speaker_heading: MARIA (CONT'D)
dialog: How are you?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Fine.
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: You remember Ellen?
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: What are you working on?
text: Basquiat points at the painting.
speaker_heading: ELLEN
dialog: How much is something like that?
text: Jean raises his hand and pumps five fingers three times in the
dialog: air.
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: Fifteen. Reasonable.
text: Ellen makes a snotty face.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
text: It's unfinished.
dialog: (to Shenge)
dialog: How 'bout some blue in the corner?
text: Shenge gives Jean a stupefied look.
speaker_heading: SHENGE
dialog: Blue? Where?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: What's wrong with you today?
text: Shenge is embarrassed by Jean's remark in the company of the two
dialog: women.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't look at me like that. It hurts my
dialog: feelings.
text: He points. Unsure, Shenge picks up the brush and paints one of
dialog: the corners.
text: Maria browses through a stack of paintings leaning against the
dialog: wall.
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: I love these.
speaker_heading: ELLEN
dialog: God... I just can't even care anymore.
dialog: Compare this to a mountain or a tree.
dialog: Who're y'all trying to kid? That's what I
dialog: think. I was just in the Himalayas, and
dialog: like - OK - is this important? No. I mean,
dialog: compared to the rain forest or something?
dialog: These are just narcissistic jokes.
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: Who are you selling these through now?
text: Jean gets to his feet. He dips a long, thin brush into black
text: paint and nonchalantly crosses out the half figure that Shenge is
text: carefully surrounding with blue.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Well, that's better.
dialog: (to Maria)
dialog: You can buy direct from me.
speaker_heading: ELLEN
dialog: Look at these - silkscreens? What're you?
dialog: Andy Warhol Junior? It's like - not even
dialog: handmade anymore.
text: She's not even worth a response. Jean looks around, numb.
scene_heading: INT. MARY BOONE GALLERY - DAY
text: Jean enters the gallery. Cleaned up. Healthier. Bruises healing.
text: He looks like he's been painting.
text: Mary looks up from her desk, surprised to see Jean.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: Jean Michel... Crawling from the wreckage?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I need a dealer.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: You have a bunch of them, don't you? Albert
text: Milo walks in from another room.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: Hey Jean!
dialog: (to Mary)
dialog: It'll never fit.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: It'll be ok.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: You better take a look. Why's your door so
text: small? The ceilings are sixteen feet and
dialog: your door's the size of a mouse hole!
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: Why are your paintings so big? Just go
dialog: home. I'll get it in.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: You doing anything right now?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Naa..
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: Let's get out of here.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: See ya in an hour.
dialog: (to Mary)
dialog: So what do you think?
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: Bruno spoke to me already. We could talk
dialog: about it.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'm here.
speaker_heading: MARY BOONE
dialog: OK. I'll be at your studio Thursday three
dialog: o'clock.
scene_heading: INT. ALBERT MILO'S LOFT - DAY
text: Albert shows Jean through a series of large rooms filled with
text: enormous paintings.
text: It looks like the Cairo Museum.
text: They pause before a painting.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
text: This is painted on a backdrop from the
dialog: Kabuki theater in Japan. I painted it after
dialog: Joseph Beuys died. A rebirth painting. I
dialog: felt like he could've painted it, or maybe
text: someone else was painting it instead of me.
dialog: The Chinese calligraphers used to change
dialog: their name mid-career so they could start
text: over as someone else..
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Do you ever get sick of it?
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: Of what?
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: The whole thing - painting.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: No. It's one of the few times I feel good.
dialog: I used to have to go to work and cook every
dialog: day. That I got sick of.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: What about the shit they write?
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: You're asking me this because of the
dialog: 'lapdog' remark. I read that. The person
dialog: that wrote that has the compassion of a
dialog: housefly. That's your enemy, not your
dialog: audience. Your audience hasn't even been
dialog: born yet. It's a lie that art is popular.
dialog: The only thing popular about it is that
dialog: it's written about in newspapers. I'm
dialog: surprised when anybody comes to my
dialog: openings. There're about ten people on the
dialog: planet who know anything about painting,
dialog: and Andy's one of them.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I haven't felt like talking to him since
dialog: that thing came out.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: As long as I've known Andy, he's never
dialog: asked me for anything except to speak to
dialog: you about getting off drugs. He's painted
dialog: my picture, we've eaten dinner in God knows
dialog: how many places together. But he doesn't
dialog: care about me. He cares about you. You're
dialog: the only person he cares about. He's your
dialog: friend. Fuck that article. You want a
dialog: toasted bagel with cream cheese?
text: Milo's daughter STELLA (12) calls out from over the balcony.
speaker_heading: STELLA (O.S.)
dialog: Papa, the TV's broken... Will you fix it
dialog: please?
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: Alright. I'll be right up.
text: Albert leaves.
text: Jean looks at some paintings.
text: Stella comes downstairs.
speaker_heading: STELLA
dialog: (to Jean)
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: STELLA
dialog: I've seen you before. I like your paintings
dialog: a lot. Your hair was different.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: You like your dad's paintings?
speaker_heading: STELLA
dialog: Some of them.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Stand still.
text: He draws her.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: See you later.
speaker_heading: STELLA
dialog: Thanks
text: He walks to the door, leaving the drawing on the floor.
text: Albert returns.
speaker_heading: ALBERT MILO
dialog: Where's Jean?
speaker_heading: STELLA
dialog: He just left.
text: Albert opens the door to the stairwell looking for Jean.
text: He hears the sound of URINATING.
text: He leans over the stairwell.
text: He sees Jean Michel, taking a piss on the landing.
text: He shuts the door quietly.
scene_heading: EXT. GIFT SHOP WINDOW - DAY
text: Jean walks out of the gift shop (seen earlier, next to
dialog: beautician's)
scene_heading: EXT. BROADWAY AND HOUSTON STREET - DAY
text: Jean walks through the middle of the intersection. He carries two
text: yellow, furry toy ducks under his arm.
scene_heading: SUPER: "FEBRUARY 22, 1987"
text: Seeing Bruno at the wheel of a black Mercedes stopped at a light,
text: Jean clowns around like a street vendor who wants to wash his
dialog: window.
text: Bruno doesn't notice him.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: B.B. It's me - Jean! What's the matter? No
dialog: snow in Switzerland this year?
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: I didn't see you.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: BRUNO
dialog: You haven't heard? Andy's dead.
text: The light changes.
text: Bruno pulls across the street because of the traffic.
text: Jean drops one of the ducks in the street and walks off.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON
text: The duck lying in the street.
scene_heading: EXT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - NIGHT
text: The "OUT FOR RIBS" sign hangs outside Jean's door.
scene_heading: EXT. GREAT JONES ST - DAY
text: Mary sits in her limo trying to call Jean.
scene_heading: INT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - DAY
text: Near darkness. The curtains are drawn. Music plays: `Birds' by
text: Neil Young: "it's over.....it's over".
text: Jean watches a video tape with the sound MUTED. The screen fills
text: with Andy's face. We SEE a series of quick scenes from his life.
text: Jean and the remaining duck are lit by the TV.
scene_heading: INT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - DAY
scene_heading: EXTREME CLOSEUP: A COLORED PENCIL TIP
text: Held in Jean's hand. It's stalled in mid-stroke. He writes with a
text: magic marker on the heel of two wooden clogs the word: "TITANIC"
text: There's a loud BANGING at the door.
text: When it stops, the pencil tip resumes its long voyage across the
dialog: page.
text: MUSIC UP: Tom Waits' "Tom Traubert's Blues"
scene_heading: EXT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Jean buzzes the doorbell. He's wearing the clogs. He's hurting.
text: The intercom comes on.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hello? Gina?
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: Who is it?
text: Jean recognizes Benny's voice.
speaker_heading: ANGLE UP
text: Gina and Benny look out the window into the street.
text: Jean's a block away.
scene_heading: EXT. MENTAL HOSPITAL - NIGHT
text: Jean gets out of a cab. He walks up to the entrance.
text: The doors are locked. He rattles them.
text: Inside, an OLD JANITOR keeps mopping.
text: Jean pounds harder, RATTLES the doors more.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Hey, come here! Please. Just for a second.
dialog: Open the door.
text: The janitor gets nervous. He leaves.
text: He returns a moment later with a large SECURITY GUARD.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Open up! Open up!
text: The guard unlocks the door, hoping to settle Jean down.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: My mother's inside.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Come back tomorrow. Visiting hours are
dialog: over.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't cause any trouble.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I'm not here to visit... I wanna take her
dialog: home.
text: The guard gently ushers Jean out through the door.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Don't cause any trouble.
text: He locks the door and walks off with the janitor.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAYBREAK
text: Jean, walks around, drifting, stoned. He looks up at the skyline.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: Waves crash silently over a surfer.
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
speaker_heading: STREET SOUNDS
speaker_heading: BENNY (O.S.)
dialog: Willie Mays.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - MORNING
text: Jean has been passed out on a sidewalk.
text: CLOSE ON: Benny's face.
text: He leans over Jean and helps him up.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Willie Mays... Nice to see you.
text: Benny looks at Jean's eyes.
text: Jean stretches, kicking life back into his limbs.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: How's Gina? You guys getting along?
text: Benny looks at him guiltily.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: She's good.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: I guess it was a long time ago.
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Come on, let's get out of here.
scene_heading: EXT. JEEP - STREETS - DAY
text: Jean and Benny zoom along in a battered old Army Jeep. Now
text: revived, Jean stands up, waving at people miming General Patton.
text: We HEAR the music of "Summer of Siam."
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Sit down! You're gonna fall out!
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Me fall? Let's get some drugs!
speaker_heading: BENNY
dialog: Drugs??!
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Medicine, man! Like health food. I'm taking
dialog: care of my health!
scene_heading: INT. HEALTH FOOD STORE - DAY
text: A mountain of homeopathic medicine and health food on the
text: counter. Benny helps the clerk load it into a box.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: You starting a hospital?
text: Jean approaches and dumps some more stuff onto the counter.
text: He's chewing something.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT
dialog: Just ring it up. I don't need a bag.
dialog: (to Benny)
dialog: Try this tabouli - it's great...
text: Tabouli spills onto Jean's shirt.
scene_heading: EXT - WEST BROADWAY - DAY
text: Jean and Benny walk along. Benny's arms are full with boxes.
text: Jean walks in front, eating yogurt. He's wearing his Titanic
text: clogs. Benny tries to keep up.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: My mom told me this... Or was it a dream?
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. CELL - DAY
text: A crude stone jail - almost medieval - fairy-tale like. A thick
text: wooden plank suspended by chains for a bench. A candle on the
dialog: wall.
text: A small, crowned prince (the boy seen in the dream in intro.)
text: looks longingly out the window at rolling green hills. Terraced
text: hillsides, cedar trees, cottages, smoke wafting up from chimneys.
text: Dirt streets.
text: The prince smashes the window. He hits his head on the bars,
text: gripping them tightly.
scene_heading: EXT. MEDIEVAL VILLAGE' - DAY
text: The villagers cease their activities as they listen to the SOUND.
text: Looking up, they smile, as if warmed to their souls by some
text: unearthly and intangible substance. They look heavenwards.
text: CAMERA follows their collective gaze skywards.
text: We shoot up, up, into the sky.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (O.S.)
dialog: There was this little prince with a magic
text: crown. An evil warlock kidnapped him,
text: locked him in a cell in a huge tower and
text: took away his voice. There was a window
text: made of bars. The prince would smash his
text: head against the bars hoping that someone
text: would hear the sound and find him. The
dialog: crown made the most beautiful sound that
dialog: anyone ever heard. You could hear the
dialog: ringing for miles. It was so beautiful,
dialog: that people wanted to grab the air. They
dialog: never found the prince. He never got out of
text: the room. But the sound he made filled
dialog: everything up with beauty.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (O.S)
dialog: It's definitely time to get out of here.
scene_heading: EXT. WEST BROADWAY - DAY
text: We rush down, down through the sky.
text: Buildings come up at us.
dialog: We're over Soho.
text: We're back on the ground.
text: Benny and Jean continue walking.
text: We see Jean from behind. He's looking up.
text: Benny stops to readjust his parcels.
text: Jean continues down the street, talking louder.
speaker_heading: BASQUIAT (CONT'D)
dialog: Hawaii? Fuck Hawaii. Let's go to Ireland.
dialog: We'll stop in every bar and have a drink.
scene_heading: FREEZE FRAME ON HIS FACE
speaker_heading: SUPER:
scene_heading: "JEAN MICHEL BASQUIAT
scene_heading: BORN: DECEMBER 14, 1961
scene_heading: DIED: AUGUST 12, 1988"
scene_heading: EXT. IRELAND - DAY
text: Rolling hills. Green. Lush. Peaceful..
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
