speaker_heading: BATMAN & ROBIN
scene_heading: 1	INT. BATCAVE -BATMAN'S COSTUME VAULT
text: Chrome and shadow. A black gauntlet SNAPS into place. A cape WHIPS over a dark rubber back.
text: A bat-shaped buckle LOCKS.
scene_heading: 2	INT. BATCAVE ROBIN'S COSTUME VAULT - INTERCUT
text: A silver throwing-bird is chosen from a weapon's array.
text: Gloved hands lift a black eye mask. Tunic armor CLICKS shut,
text: turning to reveal the chest-borne insignia of a Robin.
scene_heading: 3	INT.BATCAVE
text: BATMAN - CLOSE. Emerges from his costume vault.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Deeper excavation has doubled the size of the cavern.
dialog: 
text: New state-of-the-art computing systems flash.
text: Surveillance screens monitor news and police FREQUENCIES.
dialog: Crime's worst nightmare.
dialog: 
text: Batman strides towards the rising steam-obscured pedestal
text: which bears the sleek, redesigned Batmobile.
dialog: 
text: ROBIN appears in the door of his costume vault, dressed in
text: the black and red of his Nightwing costume.
dialog: 
text: Two dark avengers stand suited, ready to take back the night.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Nice suit. And today you are?
speaker_heading: ROBIN
text: Nightwing. Scourge of darkest evil.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: This is all about fashion for you, isn't it?
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: It's the gear. Chicks love the gear.
text: ALFRED steps forward, out of the shadows.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Do call if you're going to be late for dinner, sir.
text: 4	TURBOS - CLOSE. ROAR. The Batmobile SHOOTS away through
text: the arches of the cave access tunnel.
text: 5	The compass to of the Batmobile service pedestal splits
text: wide like the opening petals of a flower, revealing a
text: sleek, turbo-charged motorcycle. meet Robin's bike: The
dialog: Redbird.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Drive carefully, Master Wing.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Don't wait up, AL.
text: 6	The REDBIRD'S TURBO - CLOSE. EXPLODES into life.
text: The powerful bike SHOOTS after the Batmobile.
text: 7	ALFRED watches them go.
text: Then, he relaxes, lets his weight
text: fall against the main console, a man not as well as he seems.
scene_heading: 8	INT. BATCAVE ACCESS TUNNEL - BATMOBILE - MOVING
text: Batman is behind the wheel, Robin visible through the
dialog: window.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: Ten police cruisers frozen solid on
dialog: the Gotham Expressway . . .
scene_heading: 9	INT. BATCAVE ACCESS TUNNEL - REDBIRD - MOVING
text: Robin is on his bike, data scrolling on his console monitor.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
text: ... A giant drilling truck burrowing under
dialog: the city ...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Mr. Freeze.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
text: The batcomputer tracks him heading
dialog: for the Gotham Museum.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: The new antiquities exhibit. The
dialog: Second Sun of the Sudan.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Of course. He's going to steal the
text: giant white diamond.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No, Robin. He's going to jail.
scene_heading: 10	BATMAN'S MONITOR - CLOSE - THE GOTHAM MUSEUM
speaker_heading: PUSH IN
scene_heading: 11	EXT. GOTHAM MUSEUM - NIGHT
text: A stone and glass palace set on the edge of Gotham's
dialog: Central Park.
scene_heading: 12	INT. GOTHAM MUSEUM - NIGHT
text: A GIANT DRILLING TRUCK points up through the rubble of the
text: shattered museum floor.
text: 13	WIDER. A great hall bearing the skeleton of a mighty
text: brontosaur amongst a myriad of other exotic antiquities.
dialog: All frozen.
scene_heading: 14	HOLD on A GIANT DIAMOND CASE
text: The case begins to glow blue, then white, the shatterproof
text: glass EXPLODING into a thousand flying fragments.
text: 15	RACK IN through the storm of ice and glass, ACROSS the
text: frozen floor, PAST exhibits of Aztec ruins peppered now
text: with three FROZEN GUARDS, UP stone steps of a pyramid
dialog: altar TO REVEAL...
text: ...A silver suited figure stands, bald head visible beneath a
dialog: helmet,
text: A high-tech bazooka in his hand. MR. FREEZE
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: The Iceman Cometh.
speaker_heading: 16	WIDER
text: A gang of Thugs in thermal suits, THE ICEMEN, skate to the
text: base of the steps. Two hold a MOANING, shivering GUARD
dialog: captive.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Please. Show some mercy.
text: Freeze begins down the altar steps. A SHIMMERING, TERRIFYING
speaker_heading: GOD.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I'm afraid my condition has left me
dialog: cold to your pleas of mercy.
text: 17	Freeze FIRES his weapon, the beam of cryonic energy
text: engulfing the Guard, turning him to ice.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: (knocks on the guard's cheek)
dialog: Copsicle.
text: Freeze closes, now, on the shattered case.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: In this universe, there is only one
dialog: absolute. Everything...
text: Freeze swipes away the shattered glass and steel, from the
text: debris lifts a tremendous diamond.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
text: ...Freezes.
text: Freeze holds the diamond high over his head, the light
text: hitting the gem like a star.
scene_heading: 18	THE SKYLIGHT - CLOSE. EXPLODES.
text: Batman free-falls into
text: the room, hitting the brontosaurus and sliding down its neck,
text: SMASHING Freeze with his feet, the diamond sliding
text: across the frozen floor.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: (aiming his pistol)
dialog: Bat on ice, anyone?
text: 19	Batman KICKS the pistol high in the air, catches it.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Didn't your mother ever tell you not
dialog: to play with guns?
text: 20	Freeze cartwheels across the room, kicking the gun away
text: from Batman, catching it in mid air.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: You're not sending me to the cooler.
text: 21	Freeze FIRES. Batman dodges the blast. Freeze takes aim
dialog: again.
scene_heading: 22	THE FRONT DOORS - CLOSE. BLOW OPEN
text: Robin, on the Redbird, flies into the room.
text: 23	BATMAN uses the distraction, flying-kicks the gun into
dialog: the air.
text: 24	ROBIN soars over Freezes head, kicks the airborne gun to
text: the altar atop the giant pyramid.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
text: Score. And the crowd goes wild.
text: 25	Robin lands, laying his bike sideways in a slide,
text: KNOCKING a precious vase into mid air. he grabs a statue,
text: using it to whip around in a dismount.
text: 26	BATMAN catches the falling vase, replaces it, as Robin
text: skates beside him. The two heroes race for Freeze.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Grab the gem. Kill the heroes.
text: 28	MORE INCEMEN in hockey masks, sticks in hand, rush the
text: caped crusaders from both sides.
speaker_heading: 29			ROBIN
dialog: It's the hockey team from hell.
text: 30	FREEZE is racing towards the altar and his fallen gun.
text: SIX GUARDS rush in through a side door and swarm the
text: unarmed Freeze. Mistake.
text: Freeze begins wailing on the Guards. It's a straight
text: display of fisticuffs executed with unbelievable speed
text: and precision, hooks, jabs, upper and lower cuts
text: all perfectly delivered, felling the assault force.
speaker_heading: 30A			FREEZE
dialog: Cop-suey.
text: He begins racing again for his gun.
text: 31	BATMAN AND ROBIN begin a martial arts extrordinaire,
text: blocking stick blows, punching and kicking the Icemen.
text: 32	THE GEM lays on the ice behind the wall of advancing
speaker_heading: ICEMEN.
text: 33/34	BATMAN AND ROBIN grab two assailants, slipping between
text: their legs, skates popping out of their boots, as they
text: snatch the Icemen's sticks and trip the villains.
text: 35	FREEZE has made it to his gun. He turns, FIRES, creating
text: an ice bridge to the floor.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
text: Caution. Bridge may ice over.
text: 35A	He slides down the ice bridge to the floor below.
text: Starts racing for his giant drilling truck.
text: 36	BATMAN begins skating towards Freeze.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You get the ice. I'll get the iceman.
text: 37	ROBIN skates through the Thugs, double sticking,
text: CHECK-ING them wildly into the boards, reaches
text: down and scoops up the diamond.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Sweet.
text: 38/39 FREEZE is racing towards his truck, Batman closing fast
text: behind him.
text: Freeze spins and FIRES.
text: 40	BATMAN ducks, using his cape as an ice shield, deflecting
text: the beam into a closing Iceman behind him, freezing the
dialog: villain solid.
text: 41	FREEZE disappears behind the giant brontosaurus.
text: 42	ROBIN skates into line with Batman, both heading fast for
dialog: Freeze.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: (shows the diamond)
dialog: I got mine. Where's yours?
text: 43	FREEZE FIRES his gun, freezing the legs of the mighty
dialog: Brontosaur.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: What killed the dinosaurs? The ice age.
text: 44/45 Freeze pushes on the belly of the beast, the mighty
text: creature toppling forward, EXPLODING in front of Batman
dialog: and Robin.
speaker_heading: 46				ROBIN
dialog: He's definitely extinct.
text: 47/48 BATMAN AND ROBIN skate fast to avoid the debris.
text: 49	AN ICEMAN flies in from the side, hitting Robin's hand,
text: sending the gem flying free.
text: 50	ANOTHER ICEMAN skates to the gem, HITTING it with his
text: stick, sending the diamond flying up onto the landing by
text: the front doors.
text: 51	FREEZE has made it to his truck, is climbing towards the
dialog: hatch.
text: 52	THE ICEMEN are a rushing wall between the caped crusaders
text: and the gem. Batman and Robin skate toward the villains,
text: pulling flagpoles from a display as if they are about to
dialog: joust the Icemen.
text: At the last second, Batman and Robin drive their poles
text: into the ice, vaulting over the heads of the Icemen
text: towards the landing and the waiting gem above.
text: 53	FREEZE has climbed to the hatch of his vehicle.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Hit me boys.
text: 54/55 Batman and Robin land on the landing inches from the gem.
text: An Iceman skates from the wings, with a SLAPSHOT, sends
text: the diamond flying.
text: 56	FREEZE'S GLOVE - CLOSE. The diamond HITS. A perfect
dialog: catch.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Thanks for playing.
text: 57	Freeze drops into the cab of his giant drilling truck.
text: The hatch starts to slide closed.
speaker_heading: 58				BATMAN
dialog: Round up the thugs. I'll get Freeze.
text: 59/60 Batman leaps onto the banister, slides standing down the
text: rail and jumps, dropping into the closing hatch after
dialog: Freeze.
scene_heading: 61	INT. DRILLING TRUCK - CONTROL CAPSULE
text: A bank of control panels are set inside the giant glass
text: head of the drill. Batman falls in to find Freeze standing
text: at the main console.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Stop the insanity.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Nice of you to drop in.
text: Freeze hits a button. A tremendous ROAR.
scene_heading: 62	INT. MUSEUM
text: The capsule, set on the end of an ejection cylinder,
text: BLASTS out of the drilling truck, rising like a rocket
text: towards the roof.
text: 63	ROBIN jumps on another banister, slides down, grabs a
text: banner and swings himself onto the side of the cylinder,
text: clutching a porthole ledge and hanging fast.
scene_heading: 64	EXT. GOTHAM MUSEUM
text: The capsule BLOWS through the top of the museum, ROCKETING
text: towards the starry night sky above.
text: 65	ZOOM IN. Robin clings to the side of the rocket for dear
dialog: life.
scene_heading: 66	INT. CAPSULE
text: Batman is thrown to the floor by the powerful
text: acceleration. Freeze stays upright, protected by his
dialog: mighty suit.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You were a great scientist once.
dialog: Don't squander your genius on evil.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I hate being lectured.
text: 67	Freeze throws Batman, hard, into the bulkhead, uses his
text: pistol, to FREEZE Batman's ankles and wrists to the wall
text: in chunks of ice.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Watch the numbers, Batman. For they
dialog: are the harbingers of your doom.
text: 68	ALTIMETER CLOSE. 10,000 feet and climbing fast.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Can you feel it coming? The icy cold
dialog: of space. At 30,000 feet your heart
dialog: will freeze and beat no more.
text: THE ALTIMETER CLOSE. 15,000 feet and rising.
scene_heading: 69	EXT. CAPSULE
text: Robin has climbed onto the nose-cone. Is struggling
text: against the acceleration, using bat-magnets to crawl
text: towards the escape hatch.
scene_heading: 70	INT. CAPSULE
text: Freeze steps into a glide-wing backpack mounted on the wall.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: After you have frozen, your icy tomb
text: will plummet back to Gotham.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Freeze, you're mad. This capsule
dialog: will slaughter thousands.
text: Freeze releases the door behind him, the sky WHIPPING past
dialog: beyond.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Ain't it grand? Freeze well.
text: Freeze leaps out into the night.
scene_heading: 71	EXT. NIGHT SKY
text: Freeze begins to plummet towards the lights of Gotham
dialog: below.
text: 72	FREEZE'S BACKPACK - CLOSE. A sleek wing extends from its
text: housing. Freeze angles himself downward in mid air, using his
text: glide wing to control his fast flight towards the distant city.
scene_heading: 73	INT. CAPSULE
text: 74	The controls, the glass nose-cone, the capsule itself are
text: all frosting over. The hatch opens. Robin drops in.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: I was just hanging around.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I thought you were going to stay in
text: the museum and round up the thugs.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: How about, nice to see you? Glad
dialog: you're here to save my life.
text: 75	Robin pulls a laser from his utility belt, FLASH MELTS
text: one of his ice-shackles.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: When we get home, we're having a
dialog: little communication workshop.
text: Robin FLASH METLS the other ice gauntlet. Batman is free.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Is it cold in here or is it just me?
text: 76	ALTIMETER - CLOSE. 20,000 and rising. Ice is forming
dialog: everywhere.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Got to make sure this rocket doesn't
text: turn Gotham into a crater.
text: 77	Batman whips a bat-shaped charge, throws it onto the
text: ceiling. An armed light on the charge flashes green.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Now what? We call a taxi?
text: 78	Batman grabs a handle marked CAUTION: EXPLOSIVE BOLTS.
text: Robin smiles, grabs a similar handle on the opposing metal
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Watch the first step.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Surf's up.
text: 79	Both pull the release handles, leaping onto the capsule
text: doors as the EXPLOSIVE bolts BLOW them into space.
text: 80	THE BATCHARGE LIGHT - CLOSE. Goes red.
scene_heading: 81	EXT. NIGHT SKY - FALLING
text: As the capsule EXPLODES above them raining falling
text: debris, Batman and Robin skyboard on the doors down
dialog: towards...
text: 82	FREEZE is ROCKETING to earth, the diamond in his hand.
text: 83	BATMAN AND ROBIN race towards Freeze and the city
dialog: below.
text: The caped crusaders avoid skyscraper turrets and elevated
text: bridges as they follow in Freeze's wake.
text: 84	BATMAN swoops down above the villain, pushing off his
text: skyboard, grabbing Freeze around the neck, the diamond
text: flying into mid air.
text: 85	ROBIN maneuvers in a grand flip, grabs the falling gem.
text: 86/87 FREEZE releases his glide pack buckle, dislodging Batman,
text: the hero and the glide pack spinning away from Freeze.
text: 88	BATMAN dumps the glide pack, arcs back into his rushing
dialog: drop.
text: 92	FREEZE is descending fast towards the giant smoking
text: 93	chimney of a towering industrial complex. He aims his gun
text: at the smoking toward and FIRES, the fast maw quickly
text: covering with snow.
text: 94	Freeze plummets into the snowy chimney.
text: 95	BATMAN AND ROBIN drop into the ice shaft after the
dialog: villain.
text: 96	FREEZE FIRES his gun as he falls, slowing his descent by
text: turning the chimney into a madly snaking tunnel of ice
text: before him.
text: 97	BATMAN AND ROBIN tumble head first through layers of snow
text: after the villain. They pull their Batgrapples and FIRE.
text: 98	BATGRAPPLES - CLOSE. Hit the wall. Catch.
text: 99	BATMAN AND ROBIN use their tethers to slow their descent,
dialog: landing hard in...
scene_heading: 100	INT. INDUSTRIAL BASEMENT
text: A long submarine-like corridor
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Cool. Can we do that again?
text: 101	Batman and Robin race towards Freeze who is fleeing down
text: the other end of the corridor. he points his gun at the
text: ceiling. FIRES.
text: 102	The sprinkler system pipes EXPLODE, forming a mighty,
text: intense blizzard in the wind-tunnel.
speaker_heading: 103				BATMAN
dialog: Sudden temperature drop. Watch out
dialog: for the...
text: 104	A blast of wind ROARS down the tunnel, SLAMMING the
text: doors, sending snow and ice whipping towards them
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Wind.
text: 105	Batman and Robin WHIP their capes over their faces, push
text: forward, fighting the storm, going through the doors one
dialog: by one.
scene_heading: 106	INT. BOILER ROOM
text: Frozen. At the terminus of the tunnel. A frozen boiler
text: stands in the center of the icy moat of the building's
text: INTERNAL RESERVOIR. The door swings open, Batman pushing
dialog: inside.
text: 107	Freeze flies from behind the door, SLAMMING the metal
text: portal hard into Batman's face. Batman tumbles forward.
text: 108	Freeze raises his gun. Another figure leaps in from the
text: hallway, going for Freeze. Robin.
text: 109	Freeze FIRES, turning the boy into a frozen sculpture of
text: ice. He plucks the diamond from his icy hand.
scene_heading: 109A	EXT. CROSS SECTION OF GOTHAM CITY-VFX
text: A schematic map of Gotham. Freeze's vehicle burrows
text: underneath the city, freezing the firmament in its path
text: and clearing away the debris, heading towards the boiler
dialog: room.
scene_heading: 110	INT. BOILER ROOM
speaker_heading: (OVER) a RUMBLING.
text: Suddenly the wall EXPLODES. Freeze's
text: drilling truck appears in the clearing smoke.
speaker_heading: 111				FREEZE
dialog: Can you be cold, Batman? You have
text: eleven minutes to thaw the bird.
dialog: What will you do, chase the villain
dialog: or save the boy?
text: Freeze leaps onto the giant vehicle.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Your emotions make you weak. That is
dialog: why this day is mine.
dialog: (smile)
dialog: Stay cool, bats.
text: 112	And Freeze is gone, sealing the tunnel hole after him
text: with a blast of ice, clearing the frosted pane to wave
dialog: goodbye.
text: 113	Batman moves fast to the boy wonder, touches his frozen
text: skin. He whips out his bat-laser, points at the icy
dialog: reservoir and FIRES.
text: 114	THE RESERVOIR - CLOSE. The frozen water melts, begins to
speaker_heading: SIMMER.
text: 115	The caped crusader immerses Robin in the steaming sea.
text: 115A	Under the water, the boy's face is perfectly still.
text: 116	A long beat. Then Robin's head breaks the surface.
scene_heading: COUGHING. Alive
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Did we get him?
scene_heading: 117	EXT. SOUTH AMERICAN RAIN FOREST - NIGHT
text: (OVER) THUNDER. Lighting flashes on a maze of tends and
text: tarpaulins affixed to the ruins of a decaying PRISON MORTE.
text: A "FOR SALE OR LEASE" sign is illuminated by the storm.
text: SCREEN READS - Meanwhile, somewhere in the South American
dialog: Jungle...
scene_heading: 118	INT. TENTED GREENHOUSE LAB - NIGHT
text: Bunsen Burners flicker. Beakers BUBBLE.
dialog: Martha Stewart does Fankenstein.
text: PAMELA ISLEY, lovely features hidden by a glasses and bad
text: hair, shape obscured by her lab coat, TALKS into a
text: cylindrical micro-recorder.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: I still have high hopes for the
dialog: animal plant cross-breedings
text: Pam surveys the two lab tables. One table is a mass of plants.
text: The other is covered with tanks of spiders, snakes and
text: scorpions. Tubes run from the lethal beasts into a jar of
text: milky fluid labeled VENOM.
text: More tubes run from the Venom jar into the plants.
text: One plant twitches as it receives the toxins.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: If I can only find the correct dose
dialog: of Venom, these plants will be able
dialog: to fight back like animals.
dialog: I will have given flora a chance against
text: the thoughtless ravages of man.
text: (OVER) An agonized SCREAM. Terrified, Pam walks towards
text: the source of the WAILS, a gothic prison door to which the
text: tent is affixed. The portal is marked: PROJECT GILGAMESH.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Personal note: my work would proceed
dialog: faster if Dr. Woodrue weren't always
dialog: whisking my Venom samples back to
dialog: his mysterious Gilgamesh Wing. Why
dialog: won't he let me into his lab?
text: (OVER) Another blood-curdling SCREAM. Pam turns off the
dialog: recorder.
speaker_heading: PAM
dialog: What is he doing in there?
text: 119	Just then the door opens, a startled Pam dropping her
text: recorder as lightning flashes and DOCTOR JASON WOODRUE
text: ENTERS. Einstein's hair. Manson's eyes.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Dr. Isley, loveliest flower in our
dialog: garden. How fare our little wards?
text: Woodrue moves in, too close, backing Pam against her
text: worktable, his face inches from hers. He spots the jar of
dialog: Venom.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: What do we have here? A lovely new
dialog: supply of Venom.
dialog: (lifts the jar)
dialog: I'll just take this to my laboratory
dialog: for further study.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: What exactly are you working on in
dialog: there? What are those screams?
text: A bright flash of lightning. Woodrue advances on Pam.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: How I'd love to share my secrets with
dialog: you. But I ask you, sweet sapling,
dialog: can you be trusted? You refuse my
dialog: invitations to dine. You hide your
text: honeyed buds behind these sallow robes.
text: (OVER) More lightning and ever more deafening THUNDER.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Ah, but there's romance in the air
text: tonight. Perhaps a moonlit stroll in
dialog: the jungle. And then, later, in the
dialog: dark, we can share everything.
text: Woodrue has her up against the wall, his twitching lips
text: only inches from hers. Pam winces, manages to step away.
speaker_heading: (OVER) another SCREAM.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: You have to tell me what you're
dialog: doing with my Venom.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: (nasty)
dialog: You must show me your secrets,
dialog: blossom, before I show you mine.
text: 120	Pam watches him leave. As the door to the Gilgamesh wing
text: swings closed, Pam kicks her fallen recorder, the metal
text: cylinder rolling between door and jamb, keeping the
text: entrance from sealing.
scene_heading: 121	INT. LABS - GILGAMESH SECTION - WALKING
text: Pam steals through the crumbling hallway of the abandoned
text: prison following the SCREAMS (OVER) as they grow ever
speaker_heading: LOUDER.
scene_heading: 122	INT. LABS - GILGAMESH CHAMBER
text: Banks of flashing SuperCrays. A gurney is surrounded by
text: SPARKING and HUMMING equipment. Frankestein meets
dialog: Frankenstien.
text: Woodrue emerges from the shadows, a portable phone in
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen of the
dialog: un-United Nations.
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: And our mystery bidder.
text: 123	Pull BACK TO REVEAL
text: A small bridge arcs over the room. AN AMERICAN GENERAL,
text: A RUSSIAN COMMISSAR, A SHEIK, and A DICTATOR all watch on
dialog: from above.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: I give you the future of military
dialog: conquest.
text: A scrawny PRISONER in a too-large tank suit is dragged
text: into the room by several gun-toting CAPOS and shackled to
text: the gurney. His bald skull is adorned with three
text: surgically implanted ducts.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: May I present Antonio Diego, serial
dialog: murderer serving life in prison and
dialog: sole surviving volunteer.
text: Diego SPITS.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: And what a charmer he is.
text: 124	WIDER. Pam slips in, unseen, hides behind a stack of
text: circuit boxes, watching on as Woodrue lifts the jar of
text: milky Venom.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: The super solder serum, code named
dialog: Venom, patent pending of course.
text: Woodrue pours the venom into a high-tech injector pack
text: strapped to the back of the gurney. He lifts an open-front
text: black and white mask attached by snaking tubes to the
text: injector pack.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Notice the hassle free zipper.
text: He pulls the oversized mask over Diego's head, tubes fitting
text: into the ducts in his skull, zips the fabric closed over his
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: (lifts a remote)
dialog: Time to scream.
text: He hits a control stud on the remote. The injector pack
text: begins PUMPING the milky Venom into Diego's skull. Diego
speaker_heading: SCREAMS.
text: 125	Something strange happens to the prisoner. His chest
text: begins to enlarge. His neck becomes thick. his forearms grow.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Behold, the ideal killing machine. I
dialog: call this little number...Bane. Bane
dialog: of humanity. Imagine it, your own
dialog: personal army made up of thousands
dialog: of these super soldiers. Bidding
text: begins at a mere 10 million.
text: Woodrue ups the Venom flow. Impossibly the prisoner grows
text: larger. Arm and leg shackles SNAP. Bane lurches for the
text: Venom pump, SMASHING consoles, SPARKING components raining
text: down around Pam.
scene_heading: PAM SCREAMS.
text: As Capos rush to subdue Bane, Woodrue strides to the dazed
dialog: Pam.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Welcome to my parlor.
scene_heading: 126	INT. CORRIDOR - WALKING
text: Woodrue is escorting a nervous Pam back towards her lab.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: ...Our original sponsor had no
dialog: stomach for military applications.
dialog: he cut the funding for our work -
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Our work?
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Without your research, I could never
dialog: have come this far. Join me. The two
text: of us, entwined, side by side...
text: They have arrived at Pam's workshop. Woodrue opens the
dialog: door.
scene_heading: 127	INT. PAMELA'S WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Join you? I've spent my life trying
dialog: to protect plants from extinction
dialog: and now you corrupt my research into
dialog: some maniacal scheme for world
dialog: domination. When I get through you
dialog: won't be able to get a job teaching
dialog: high school chemistry, do you hear
dialog: me, you psycho?
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Well, I can respect your opinion.
text: Woodrue shoves Pam viciously backwards into the inter-
text: connected tables, plants and poisonous beasts raining
text: down on top of her.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Sadly, I'm not good at rejection.
text: Woodrue begins pulling shelves of cages and BUBBLING
text: beakers CRASHING down atop the struggling Pam, burying her
dialog: and all her specimens entirely.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: I'm afraid you'll have to die.
text: 128	WOODRUE - CLOSE. Smiles as the SOUNDS of Pam's struggle
text: are finally silenced. He turns, heading back into the
dialog: hallway.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: (loud)
text: Fellow maniacs, bidding begins!
scene_heading: 129	INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT
text: Bruce stands with Dick, now wrapped in a blanket, steaming
text: mug in hand, watching the main monitor.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Gotham University Labs. Security
dialog: video. Two years ago.
text: 130	SCREEN - CLOSE. The image of a dazzling hi-tech lab-
text: oratory. A beautiful young woman (NORA FRIES) lays on
text: a gurney. A SCIENTIST works a bank of controls over a
text: SMOKING vat of cryonic solution. Handsome, the intense
dialog: gaze of genius, the man Freeze once was.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Dr. Victor Fries Two time Olympic
dialog: Decathelete. Nobel Prize winner in
dialog: molecular biology. After his wife
dialog: contracted a rare disease, McGregor's
dialog: Syndrome, he hoped to freeze her in
dialog: cryogenic sleep until he could
dialog: discover a cure. Here's where
dialog: everything goes north.
text: Alarms flash. A panel EXPLODES. Fries is BLOWN into the
text: vat of cryogenic solution.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: That liquid is fifty below.
text: Fries SCREAMS, engulfed in the mists of the cryonic
text: solution, his skin now frozen, bluish, his hair brittle,
text: all but gone.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: That's gotta hurt.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Somehow he survived. But the
text: cryoslution mutated his body.
text: 131	The display shows a turning schematic of Fries.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: What happened to his wife?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Presumed dead. No one knows.
text: The display now shows a turning Mr. Freeze. Compartments
text: in both suit sleeves are highlighted, flashing diamond
text: shapes within.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He needs extreme cold to survive.
text: His cryo-suit uses diamond enhanced
text: lasers to keep him at zero degrees.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Let me get this straight. A
text: brilliant citizen, disfigured by a
text: horrible accident, re-emerges as a
text: psychotic super-villain bent on
dialog: theft, revenge and destruction.
dialog: You see a pattern here?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: <		Maybe it's something in the water.
text: Bruce returns Dick's smile.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Well, if it's ice the iceman
dialog: wants...Alfred!
scene_heading: 132	INT. COSTUME VAULT - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfred stands near the costumes, clutching a console, a
text: man in intense pain. He lets the wave subside, regains his
dialog: composure.
scene_heading: 133	INT. BATCAVE - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfred emerges as if nothing were wrong.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I need the Wayne Diamonds.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: We gonna trap ourselves a snowman?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Absolutely. Just as soon as you take
text: ten hours training in the simulator.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Whoa, I made a mistake. I'm sorry.
dialog: Don't go all protective on me. It
dialog: won't happen again.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Dick, you were reckless. You could
dialog: have been killed.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I'm fine. See. Me. here. Alive.
dialog: How are we gonna work together if
dialog: you're never going to trust me?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: How, indeed?
text: Bruce stares at the two of them. He smiles a wry smile.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: When did I become the bad guy?
scene_heading: 134	INT. BACK STAIRCASE - WALKING
text: Bruce and Alfred travel the winding stair that leads from
text: the Batcave to the top of the house.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: He's over-eager, impulsive. I can't
dialog: trust him not to get hurt.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps the truth is you don't
dialog: really trust anyone.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Don't tell me you're on his side.
dialog: Again.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Despite all your talents, you
dialog: are still a novice in the ways of family.
dialog: Dick follows the same ends as you but
dialog: gets there by his own course. You
dialog: must learn to trust him. For that
dialog: is the nature of family.
text: They step through a doorway into...
scene_heading: 135	INT. ALFRED'S QUARTERS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I trust you, Alfred.
text: Alfred seems oddly pained by Bruce's words.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: But I shan't be here forever.
text: Bruce stares at Alfred a beat. But Alfred just smiles.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Good night, Master Bruce.
scene_heading: 135A	EXT. WAYNE MANOR - HALLWAY
text: Bruce EXITS his butler's room. Looks to the end of the
dialog: hallway.
text: 135B	A YOUNGER BRUCE, no older than ten comes racing around
text: the corner, trips, tumbling to the wooden floor. Another
text: figure steps out behind him. ALFRED, decades younger, kneels
text: by the boy, brushing off his knees, giving the boy comfort.
scene_heading: 135C	BACK TO SCENE
text: BRUCE - CLOSE. Blinks away the images from the past, only the
text: fragile ghosts of memory, moves off down the empty hallway.
scene_heading: 135D	INT. ALFRED'S QUARTERS - NIGHT
text: Alfred sit at his computer, activates the screen. he
text: lifts a CD, slips in into the disk drive, begins to TYPE.
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
text: Override engaged. Copying protected
dialog: files.
text: Alfred lifts a micro-recorder.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Still unable to reach you. have
dialog: vital information you must see...
text: 136	SCREEN - CLOSE. The files Alfred is copying. Batmobile
text: design. Batsuit schematics. All downloading onto the small
dialog: disk.
scene_heading: 137	EXT. SOUTH AMERICAN JUNGLE - PRISON MORTE - NIGHT
text: A full moon shines over the hidden complex.
scene_heading: 138	INT. TENTED GREENHOUSE LAB
text: Woodrue stands at Pam's workstation, TALKING on his
text: portable phone as he rifles through her research.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Yes, sir, I'm so pleased you won the
dialog: bidding, Your Supreme Ruthlessness..
text: (OVER) Bane SCREAMS in the distance.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: We're making the final modifications
dialog: on Bane right now. We'll have a
dialog: thousand super soldiers out to you
dialog: tomorrow by overnight mail...
text: 139	He hangs up. HOLD on a patch of ivy in the b.g. Perfectly
text: still. Suddenly the leaves RUSTLE, as if being moved from
dialog: beneath.
text: Woodrue turns as a figure BURSTS, fast, from beneath the
dialog: brush.
text: Magenta hair. Chlorophyll green eyes. Ravaged clothes
text: revealing the form and demeanor of a goddess. The woman
text: who was once Pamela Isley smiles, moves forward.
speaker_heading: WOODRUE
dialog: Dr. Isley? Pamela? You look great.
dialog: Especially for a dead woman.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Hello, Jason. I think I've had a
dialog: change of heart.
text: Her lips glisten. She leans in and kisses him.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Quite literally. I don't think I'm
dialog: human anymore. The animal-plant
dialog: toxins had a rather unique effect on
dialog: me. They replaced my blood with
dialog: aloe, my skin with chlorophyll and
text: fill my lips with Venom.
text: Woodrue begins to CHOKE. He falls, clutching his throat.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Oh, and Jason? One other thing.
dialog: Silly me, I probably should have
dialog: mentioned this earlier. I'm poison.
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: It's a jungle in here.
text: 140		Pam spills beakers of chemicals onto the floor. She
text: throws a Bunsen burner to the ground, the lab suddenly in
text: flames.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Let the flames touch the sky. For I
dialog: am nature's arm, her spirit, her
dialog: will. Hell, I am mother nature.
dialog: The time has come for plants to take
dialog: back the world so rightfully ours.
dialog: Because it's not nice to fool with
dialog: mother nature.
text: Something catches Pam's eye. Pam lifts a broken beaker
scene_heading: On it, the Wanye Enterprises logo. (OVER) Bane SCREAMS
text: in the distance.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Coming, Bane darling. We've got a
dialog: plane to catch.
scene_heading: 141	EXT. SNOWY CONES ICE CREAM FACTORY - NIGHT
text: An abandoned ice cream factory built in the shape of a
text: snowman's face, a dripping cone stuck onto the giant
text: snowball head.
scene_heading: 142	INT. SNOWY CONES ICE CREAM FACTORY
text: Abandoned. Always freezing. Ice sculpture everywhere.
text: Freeze walks the bowels of the old factory.
text: ICEMEN in parkas and SNOW BUNNIES eat frozen dinners,
text: GUFFAWING as they watch TV. The SEXIEST BUNNY sidles up
dialog: to Freeze.
scene_heading: MS. B. HAVEN
dialog: Freezy, I'm feeling...hot.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I find that unlikely.
scene_heading: MS. B. HAVEN
dialog: Okay, my hair is brittle, my skin
dialog: is dry and I don't care. I'd
dialog: weather blizzards to have you.
dialog: You're the most perfect man I've
dialog: ever known.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: To be frozen. To never change. A
dialog: life of perpetual ice-olation.
dialog: There is little perfection in that.
scene_heading: MS. B. HAVEN
dialog: (pushing closer)
dialog: What say we turn up the heat?
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: You're skating on thin ice. My
dialog: passion thaws for my bride alone.
scene_heading: MS. B. HAVEN
dialog: Forget your frosty femme. These lips
text: are wet and ready to get frostbite.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Hop away little bunny. Before I
dialog: cool your jets. Permanently.
text: The Bunny storms off.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I wonder how cold I can get my
dialog: shower...Frosty!
text: Freeze's faithful aide, FROSTY, appears by his side.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Everyone is always having a good
dialog: time. Except me. Try as I might,
dialog: can find no pleasure. Perhaps my
text: heart truly has turned to ice.
text: 143	Freeze lifts his gun and FIRES, freezing Frosty solid.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Well, that was fun. There's hope for
dialog: me yet.
text: 143A	Freeze stares at his frozen aide a beat, changes the
text: setting on his gun and FIRES, a THAWING BEAM melting
text: Frosty so he stands now, soaked and dripping like a wet cat.
text: 143B	Freeze turns on his heel. Frosty follows him past
text: mounting files of research. Scrawled schematics An icy
dialog: workshop.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Do you think I'm mad, Frosty?
speaker_heading: FROSTY
dialog: (wringing out his sleeves)
dialog: That's really a judgment call, boss.
text: 145	A flashing display on his suit watch reads LOW POWER.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Battling the bat exhausted my power.
text: From a safe, Freeze takes three small diamonds, place
text: them in the suit compartment. His power levels spike to
dialog: normal.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: But I was successful nevertheless.
text: 146	Freeze continues to a pedestal atop which sits a machine
text: powered by two giant diamonds. Slots for two more diamonds
text: are empty. He removes the giant stolen diamond from within
text: his tunic, place the gem in an empty third slot.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: One more giant diamond of this size
dialog: and my freezing cannon will be
dialog: complete. I will hold Gotham ransom.
dialog: Unless the city bows to my demands,
dialog: it's winter forever here in goat-town.
dialog: The city fathers will have no choice
dialog: but to give me the billions I need
dialog: to complete my research, to find the
dialog: cure for...
text: 146	Freeze has come to a frozen wall.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Leave us. We need quality time.
text: 148	As Frosty EXITS in the b.g., Freeze enters a walk-in
text: freezer, lifts a frozen dinner box. A SECRET VAULT opens.
text: Freezes steps into...
scene_heading: 148A	INT. FREEZE'S SUBTERRANEAN COLD VAULT
text: Within, a computerized glacier-like sarcophagus bears his
text: frozen wife, a snowflake pendant around her neck.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: (touches the glass)
dialog: Soon we will be together once more.
text: Freeze turns towards his research, heading back to work.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Nothing frustrates a man like a
text: frigid wife.
scene_heading: 149	INT. LIMBO - NIGHT
text: Robin is fighting Mr. Freeze and his cronies. Robin
text: delivers a fast set of spinning kicks to the Thugs,
text: felling them like toys.
text: 150	A Thug carrying a large diamond breaks free, racing away.
text: Robin leaps for the escaping Thug, putting his back to
dialog: Freeze.
text: 151	Freeze raises his joined fists high above Robin's head,
text: coming down fast. Robin is done for.
text: 152	Suddenly Batman swing out of the dark, his boots flying
text: into Freeze's chest, sending the villain hard to the
dialog: ground.
text: 153	Batman drops to Freeze's chest, HAMMERS a series of
text: punches into his tunic, rendering him unconscious. Batman
text: looks up at Robin.
speaker_heading: 154				BATMAN
dialog: We'll be starting again now.
text: 155	Just then Freeze's hand shoots up, grabbing Batman by the
dialog: throat.
speaker_heading: 156				BATMAN
dialog: Pause virtual reality simulation.
text: PUSH IN as Batman reaches towards his cowl. SCREEN WIPES
text: TO REVEAL...
text: 157	BRUCE WAYNE - CLOSE. Pulls off a pair of VR goggles.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Bruce and Dick, also in VR goggles, stand on an empty
text: platform in the back of the Batcave.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I got the diamond. Quell problemo, Bruce?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You left your back wide open. Freeze
dialog: could have killed you.
text: 158	Dick demonstrates a spinning back kick that would have
text: dropped Freeze in his tracks.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I had it covered.
text: (OVER) A doorbell RINGS.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You know, in the circus, The Flying
dialog: Graysons were a team. We had to
dialog: trust each other. We had to count
dialog: on each person to do his part. That's
dialog: what being partners is all about.
dialog: (loud)
dialog: End simulation.
text: 159	Ambient lights come up in the cave.
speaker_heading: 160				DICK
dialog: Sometimes counting on someone else
dialog: is the only way to win.
text: (OVER) the doorbell RINGS again.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: Where's Al?
text: Dick heads for the door.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (following)
dialog: Couldn't we just for once pretend
dialog: that I'm the teacher and you're the
dialog: student?
scene_heading: 162	INT. WAYNE MANOR - FOYER - AFTERNOON
text: Columns of dancing sunlight fill the giant entryway. Dick
text: goes to the front door as Bruce meets Alfred emerging in
dialog: the b.g.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I must have dozed off. My sincerest
dialog: apologies, sir.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: No apology necessary. That's the
dialog: first time in thirty years.
text: Bruce smiles, but he can't take his eyes off Alfred. The
text: butler seems pale, older than usual.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Mystery pizza delivery?
text: 163	Dick opens the door. A young girl stands in the autumn
text: light, beautiful, dressed in prim, schoolgirl clothes,
scene_heading: BARBARA WILSON.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Please be looking for me.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I'm so sorry to trouble you, but-
text: That's when the girl sports Alfred. The old man's eyes
dialog: widen.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Uncle Alfred?
text: 164	Barbara rushes in, past Dick and Bruce, into the old
text: butler's arms. he holds her close. Bruce and Dick face
dialog: each other.
speaker_heading: BRUCE & DICK
dialog: (mouthing)
dialog: Uncle?
scene_heading: 165	EXT. WAYNE ESTATE GARDENS - AFTERNOON - WALKING
text: Bruce, Alfred, Dick, and Barbara tour.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: How long has it been, Uncle Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Ten years.
dialog: (to Bruce)
dialog: Barbara isn't really me niece, sir.
dialog: She's Joanna Clark's daughter.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Of course. Alfred still keeps your
text: mother's picture in his room.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Anybody want to tell us kids in the
dialog: cheap seats who Joanna Clark is?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Joanna and I were in love in London.
dialog: But when I realized our age difference
dialog: was too extreme -
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Uncle Alfred left for America. Much
dialog: to my mother's dismay -
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Eventually she married a young
dialog: physician.
scene_heading: 166	EXT. WAYNE ESTATE - STABLES - WALKING - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Al's main squeeze. Is she here?
dialog: (off everyone's looks)
text: I'm about to scrape the bottom of my
dialog: shoe off my tongue, right?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: My parents were killed in an auto
dialog: accident ten years ago. Alfred has
dialog: been supporting me ever since.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You have?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Secrets are a virtual prerequisite
dialog: in this house, don't you think?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I'm on break from-
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Oxbridge Academy?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Their new computer sciences
dialog: division. How did you know?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I recognized the accent.
text: 167	They have come to the garage. A motorcycle sits out
dialog: front.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: What is it? It's beautiful.
text: The way the sun catches Barbara, she looks like an angel.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You can say that again.
dialog: (catching himself)
dialog: It's a competition racer I've been
dialog: fixing up. Maybe one day I'll show
dialog: you how to ride.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You certainly will not.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh no, those things frighten me.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Well, I hope you'll stay with us.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: There's a lovely inn just down --
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: All this luxury really isn't my
dialog: style but-
dialog: (still eyeing the bike)
dialog: I'd love to stay.
speaker_heading: BRUE
dialog: Then it's settled.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Oh, but, sir. So much goes on-
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Don't be silly, Alfred.
dialog: After all, she's family.
scene_heading: 170	EXT. GOTHAM AIRPORT - TARMAC _ NIGHT
text: A vintage DC-3 steams on the runway. Pilots descend the
dialog: gangway.
text: Pamela Isley, dressed as a grieving window, supervises the
text: LUGGAGE HANDLERS' debarkation of a coffin. An immense
dialog: coffin.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Be gentle. He's always been touchy.
speaker_heading: HANDLER
dialog: Whatever you say, lady.
text: Pam watches the Handlers carry the coffin away. She turns,
text: walks off across the tarmac.
text: 171	FAVOR THE BAGGAGE HANDLERS as they bear the coffin to the
dialog: terminal.
speaker_heading: HANDLER
dialog: (imitating Pam)
dialog: He's always been touchy. Right.
text: 172	A GIANT FIST CRASHES through the splintering lid. The
text: Handlers drop the coffin as a figure emerges. Bane,
text: wearing his full costume, his injector pack strapped to
text: his back.
text: Bane lifts a Handler, begins swinging him like a baseball
text: bat, sending the other Handlers flying.
scene_heading: 173	EXT. AIRPORT - TARMAC
text: A LIMOUSINE sits at the edge of the runway. A lone
text: BUSINESSMAN approaches the waiting car. The DRIVER smiles,
text: opens the door. he Businessman climbs in to find...
scene_heading: 174	INT. LIMO - NIGHT
text: Pam sits sprawled on the back seat, showing no small bit
dialog: of leg.
speaker_heading: BUSINESSMAN
dialog: There must be some mistake --
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Silly darling, there's no need to
text: pretend in front of the driver.
text: She grabs his face kisses him passionately. She lets go,
text: the Businessman slumps to the seat. Dead.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Love hurts. In my case it kills.
scene_heading: 175	THE REARVIEW MIRROR
text: 176	The limo driver watches on. Suddenly a hand reaches in
text: SNAPPING his neck, drags out his body. Bane climbs into
text: the driver's seat.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
text: Once around the park.
scene_heading: 177	INT. ALFRED'S ROOM
text: The door is ajar. (OVER) a gentle KNOCK. Barbara pushes
text: inside, wearing a long terry robe.
text: The room is empty. She notices a pile of envelopes on the
dialog: desk.
scene_heading: ENVELOPES - CLOSE. All addressed to Wilfred Pennyworth.
text: Royal Court of Mirajanpore. All stamped RETURN TO SENDER.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (OVER)
dialog: I didn't know sneaking around was on
dialog: the curriculum at Oxbridge.
text: Barbara starts, turns. Alfred steps from the shadows in
text: his robe.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I'm sorry, Uncle, I came to tuck you
dialog: in. And...
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You came to tuck me in. That's quite
text: a switch.
dialog: (off the envelopes)
dialog: I am looking for my brother, Wilfred.
dialog: He is first butler to the Maharajah
dialog: of Mirajanpore. But Mirajanpore is a
text: floating court, it travels across
dialog: India, so Wilfred can be rather
dialog: difficult to find.
text: 178	Alfred TAPS his computer keyboard.
text: 179	SCREEN - CLOSE. Full motion images of a resplendent royal
text: court, carried entirely on the back of elephants.
speaker_heading: BARBARA (OVER)
dialog: I guess they don't have fax machines
dialog: on elephants.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I have been trying to reach Wilfred
text: with no success. As one grows older,
dialog: one yearns for family.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (she smiles)
dialog: It's good to see you again, Uncle.
dialog: I've missed you.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: As I've missed you.
dialog: (kissing her head)
dialog: Sleep well, child.
text: Barbara heads out, closing the door behind her.
scene_heading: 180	INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Barbara walks to her room. She pauses, waiting for the
text: light under Alfred's door to go out. Then she disappears
dialog: inside.
scene_heading: 181	INT. WAYNE MANOR - BARBARA'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Barbara whips off her robe. Underneath, a tight black
text: leather motorcycle outfit. She begins pulling on sleek
text: black boots.
scene_heading: 182	EXT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT _ CONTINUOUS
text: A knotted climbing rope tumbles out of one of the windows.
text: A figure expertly descends into the courtyard below.
text: Turns, face now visible in the moonlight. Barbara.
scene_heading: 183	INT. WAYNE MANOR GARAGE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS
text: Kids collect Matchbox and Corgi. Billionaires collect the
text: real thing. Barbara ENTERS, cloaked in the shadows, moves
text: stealthfully past the myriad cards until she comes to the
text: row of motorcycles.
text: She stops at a sleek competition bike, climbs on, pulling a
text: racing helmet from her back-pack, expertly kick-starts the
speaker_heading: ENGINE.
text: 184	Barbara rides out through the open garage into the
dialog: night.
scene_heading: 185	INT. SNOWY CONES ICE CREAM FACTORY - NIGHT
text: Freeze is standing at his computerized work-station,
text: entering data into the keyboard.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Maybe this time, this new formula,
dialog: will return you to me.
text: Freeze hits a switch. A beat. Then an ALERT panel flashes a
text: simple message:	TEST FAILURE.
text: Freeze SLAMS the console with his fist.
text: FOLLOW FREEZE as he rises, walks through the open door
dialog: into...
scene_heading: 185A	INT. FREEZE'S VAULT - NIGHT
text: Freeze stares up at his wife in her frozen sarcophagus,
text: fighting back the tears.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: No cure tonight, my love. Forgive
dialog: me. But soon, I promise you. Soon.
scene_heading: 186	INT. LIMOUSINE - DAY
text: Morning. Bane drives. Ivy sits in the back seat, applying
text: brown contact lenses, donning a dark wig. Pamela Isley
dialog: once more.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: (to the Charlie jingle)
dialog: Kind of Hip, kind of Wow, Ivy. Kind
dialog: of Free, kind of Now, Ivy.
scene_heading: 187	EXT. GOTHAM OBSERVATORY - DAY _ESTABLISHING
text: A stone and copper observatory in the process of being
text: restored, set atop the banks above the Gotham River and
dialog: the city beyond.
scene_heading: 188	INT. OBSERVATORY
text: An immense circular hall under construction. Within, a
text: partially installed telescope. Bruce stands flanked by
text: his stunningly beautiful date (JULIE MADISON), a SCIENTIST
text: and his ASSOCIATE, all on a podium backed by blueprints,
text: facing the PRESS.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: My father once told me that to
dialog: succeed we need only pick our
dialog: star and follow it. And so Wayne
dialog: Enterprises is donating the world's
text: most advanced telescope to Gotham's
dialog: Observatory Restoration Project.
dialog: Perhaps this telescope will give
dialog: future generations a chance to
dialog: find their own stars.
speaker_heading: GOSSIP GERTY
dialog: Brucy, is it true this new telescope
dialog: can see all around the globe?
speaker_heading: SCIENTIST
dialog: Yes, if you'll watch the monitors -
text: 189	A MONITOR BANK - CLOSE. A graphic of the earth.
text: Equidistant satellites in geosyncronous orbit are
dialog: highlighted.
speaker_heading: SCIENTIST
dialog: Satellites already in orbit allow us
text: to reflect light around the planet.
text: ON SCREEN - A graphic ray of light is reflected from a
text: satellite over Australia, to a satellite over the U.S.,
text: and then beamed to a graphic of the Gotham-based telescope.
speaker_heading: ASSOCIATE
dialog: From here we'll be able to see the
dialog: sky anywhere on earth.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Just don't point it at my bedroom.
speaker_heading: GOSSIP GERTY
dialog: Brucy, you and the exquisite Julie
dialog: Madison have been going out forever.
dialog: Are you planning to tie the knot?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Get married? me? No...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: No!?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Umm. What I mean is...no plans at
dialog: the moment...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: But soon...
speaker_heading: GERTY
dialog: Soon?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Ah...Sooner or later...all
dialog: relationships evolve and...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: And?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (to Julie)
dialog: Can I get some help over here?
text: Julie smiles, turns to the PRESS. the very picture of
dialog: composure.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Bruce and I are lucky enough to be
text: recklessly in love. And that is
dialog: most certainly enough for us.
dialog: (to Bruce)
dialog: For now.
text: FOLKS LAUGH, charmed.
speaker_heading: SCIENTIST
dialog: Now, if you'll all follow me, I'll
dialog: show you the central control grid...
dialog: The Scientist and Associate tour Julie and the Press around
text: the telescope, leaving Bruce to confer with two of his Aides.
speaker_heading: GUARD (OVER)
dialog: Mr. Wayne?
speaker_heading: 190	WIDER
text: Pam, hair in a bun, face behind glasses, cloaked in a
text: frumpy suit, is standing behind two door GUARDS.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: She doesn't have a pass, sir.
text: BRUCE smiles, waves off the guards with a gesture.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: They're overly protective. You're
dialog: Not going to hurt me are you, Ms...
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Dr. Pamela Isley.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What can I do for you, Doctor? A
dialog: research grant? A hospital wing?
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Actually, I already work for you.
dialog: Or did. Your arboreal preservation
dialog: project in South America.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: We cut our support. A conflict of
dialog: ideologies. Dr. Woodrue was a lunatic.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: I see you knew him.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: That lab was consumed by fire last
dialog: week. how did you manage to escape?
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: I have here a proposal showing how
dialog: Wayne Enterprises can immediately
dialog: cease all actions that toxify our
dialog: environment.
text: Bruce takes the proposal, scans it. Pam's eyes shine
dialog: despotic.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Forget the stars. Look here, at the
dialog: Earth, our mother, our womb. She
dialog: deserves our loyalty and protection.
dialog: And yet you spoil her lands, poison
text: her oceans, blacken her skies.
dialog: You're killing her.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Your intentions are noble, but no
dialog: diesel fuel for heat. No coolants to
dialog: preserve food. Millions would die of
text: cold and hunger alone.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
text: Acceptable losses in a battle to save
dialog: the planet.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: People come first, Dr. Isley.
text: 191	The tour has returned. Pam turns to the Press.
text: Begins to soapbox.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Mammals. So smug in your towers of
text: stone and glass. A day of reckoning
text: is coming. The same plants and
dialog: flowers that saw you crawl blind
dialog: from the primordial soup will
dialog: reclaim this planet. Earth will
dialog: be a garden again. Somehow, some
dialog: way, I will bring your man-made
text: civilization to its knees and
dialog: there will be no one to protect you.
text: Pam's tirade is so extreme, folks around her LAUGH.
speaker_heading: GOSSIP GERTY
dialog: You must be new in town. In Gotham
dialog: City, Batman and Robin protect us.
dialog: Even from plants and flowers.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Perhaps you'd like to meet them.
text: Bruce nods and an Aide hands Pam an invitation.
text: 192	INVIATION - CLOSE. Batman and Robin to appear at the
dialog: Flower Ball.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The caped crusaders are helping us
text: auction off a prized diamond to
dialog: raise money for the Gotham Botanical
text: Gardens. Just a few mammals doing
dialog: what we can for our world's plants.
speaker_heading: GOSSIP GERTY
dialog: So, Brucy, will the delicious Ms. Madison
dialog: be your date for the flower ball tonight?
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Tell me, billionaire, would you warm
dialog: faster to my pleas if I looked more
dialog: like Ms. January here?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Although the Wayne Foundation is
dialog: hosting the event, sadly I will be
dialog: unable to attend. Thank you all.
dialog: (to Pam)
dialog: Good day, Doctor.
text: Pam watches him go, trailed by press. Peers at her invitation.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
text: Batman and Robin. Militant arm of
dialog: the warm-blooded oppressors. Animal
dialog: protectors of the status quo. First
dialog: I'll rid myself of the fur and
dialog: feathered pests. And then Gotham
dialog: will be mine for the greening.
scene_heading: 193	INT. SNOWY CONES ICE CREAM FACTORY
text: 194	Nora and Victor Fries kiss at their wedding altar. The
text: 195	video images change to show the couple playing with a
text: 196	puppy. Nora LAUGHS as her husband crowds beside her. He
text: EXITS frame, hands her something.
speaker_heading: NORA
dialog: Oh, Victor, it's beautiful.
text: Nora holds her snow-flake necklace up for the camera.
text: Places it around her neck, smiling up tot he warm summer
dialog: sun.
text: 197	PULL BACK TO REVEAL
text: Freeze sits watching the images on his screen.
speaker_heading: FROSTY (OVER)
dialog: 'Scuse me, chief. I got something
dialog: her you might want to see.
text: 198	Frosty stands in the door, newspaper in hand. Without
text: shifting his gaze, Freeze lifts his freezing gun, FIRES.
text: Frosty Freezes.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I hate it when people talk during
dialog: the movie.
text: 199	Freeze continues staring at the screen. Finally the happy
text: images are just too much for him. He FIRES his gun at the
text: screen, the picture EXPLODING into flying shards of light.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: One more diamond, my love. One more.
text: 200	Freeze rises. he breaks off the cover of the frozen paper
text: 201	in Frosty's hand. PAPER-CLOSE. Wayne Donates Diamond to
dialog: Flower Ball.
scene_heading: 202	EXT. GOTHAM BOTANICAL GARDENS - NIGHT
text: An immense glass greenhouse set atop the roof of a mighty
text: skyscraper. Elegant guests mill admist the stars.
scene_heading: 203	INT. GOTHAM BOTANICAL GARDENS - GREENHOUSE - NIGHT
text: A hanging banner reads GOTHAM CHARITY FLOWER BALL. A
text: GIANT BEAST MASK covers the entrance. DRUMMERS STOMP on
text: congo drums. GUESTS dress as flowers. TWO COSTUMED
text: GORILLAS romp about the room.
text: 203A	Batman and Robin stand by the stage.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: You think Freeze will take the bait?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: He'll be here.
text: 203B	ATOP THE STAIRS. The two Gorillas have converged on the
text: DRUMMERS. One begins dancing around, covertly KNOCKING
text: the drummers unconscious with his paws.
text: 204	ON STAGE. The MC walks out, followed by Gossip Gerty.
speaker_heading: MC
dialog: Ladies and Gentlemen. Gossip Gerty
dialog: of Good Morning Gotham and I welcome
dialog: you to the gem of our evening.
text: 204	Two armed guards emerge bearing a palette upon which
text: hangs a silver necklace supporting a perfect, grapefruit
text: sized diamond.
speaker_heading: GOSSIP GERTY
dialog: The famed Heart of Isis, on loan
dialog: from the Collection of my close,
dialog: personal friend Bruce Wayne.
text: The MC gestures and several woman step forward dressed as
text: flowers, each more strikingly gorgeous than the next.
speaker_heading: MC
dialog: Tonight, on auction, an opportunity
dialog: to dine with one of our fabulous
dialog: flowers, the famed diamond draped
text: around her neck.
speaker_heading: GOSSIP GERTY
dialog: Ooo, look at all these luscious
dialog: lovelies. let's start the bidding.
speaker_heading: MAN #1
dialog: Ten thousand for Chrysanthemum.
speaker_heading: MAN #2
dialog: Twenty thousand for Lilac.
speaker_heading: MAN #3
dialog: Thirty thousand for Rose.
speaker_heading: GOSSIP GERTY
dialog: Boys, please. Show some gusto.
text: 205	THE TOP OF THE STAIRS. ONE GORILLA begins to BEAT the
text: drums. The other removes her paw mitts. Her gorilla's
text: head. From within her gorilla costume, steps a vision.
text: Skin tight green costume made of leaves. Green boots and
text: mask. magenta hair. Glowing green eyes. Meet POISON IVY,
dialog: simply the most beautiful woman known to man.
scene_heading: 205A	ROBIN-CLOSE. Smiles.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Gorilla my dreams.
text: 206	Ivy lifts her green gloved hands, both filled with piles
text: of sparkling dust, blows the powder over the startled
dialog: patrons.
text: 207	FOLLOW THE DUST as it spins out in fairy-like spirals,
text: curling through the crowd.
text: 208	THE CROWD - VARIOUS SHOTS. Folks blink their eyes,
text: suddenly bewitched, as Ivy tilts backwards, falling into
text: the arms of several jungle clad men on the ballroom floor.
text: 209	IVY saunters over a bridge made of the backs of kneeling
text: men, through the parting crowd, towards Batman and Robin.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Hi there.
speaker_heading: MC
dialog: (sputtering)
dialog: And you are...
speaker_heading: IVY
text: Poison. Poison Ivy.
text: 210	BATMAN - CLOSE. Dazed. Like a man who's drunk a quart of
text: love potion. He takes her hand.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Why not send junior to bed early, I
dialog: could come and take your measurements?
text: Ivy turns now to Robin, offers the other hand. She blows
text: another volley of dust into Robin's face.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: On the other hand, youth does have
dialog: its advantages. Endurance. Stamina.
text: 211	ROBIN - CLOSE. Also suddenly smitten, perhaps even
dialog: harder.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Why settle for second place? Robin
text: is a sidekick, a junior partner. If
dialog: we were a team, you'd be the star.
dialog: Forget the geriatric bat. Come, join
dialog: me, my garden needs tending.
text: The two help her up onto stage. She turns to the
dialog: mesmerized MC.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I'll take it from here, pal.
text: Ivy lifts the diamond, places it around her neck.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Some lucky boy's about to hit the
dialog: honey pot. I'll include an evening
dialog: of my company for the winner. I'll
dialog: bring everything you see here. Plus
dialog: everything you don't.
dialog: (off Batman and Robin)
dialog: And I'll bring my imagination.
speaker_heading: MAN #1
dialog: 50 thousand for Poison Ivy - -
speaker_heading: MAN #2
dialog: 100 thousand for Poison Ivy - -
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: One million - -
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: You own it.
dialog: (loud)
dialog: Two million - -
text: The two lock eyes.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: You don't have two million.
dialog: (loud)
dialog: Three million - -
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: I'll borrow it from you.
dialog: (loud)
dialog: Four million - -
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: You two boys aren't going to fight
dialog: over little old me, are you?
text: Batman reaches to his utility belt, draws a batarang.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Five million - -
text: Robin reaches to his utility belt, pulls a throwing bird.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Six million - -
speaker_heading: GOSSIP GERTY
dialog: Is it getting nippy in here?
text: 212	THE TEETH of the giant mask EXPLOSE as Freeze's truck
text: 213	SMASHES into the room from an elevated bridge beyond.
text: 214	Standing atop the vehicle, backed by swirling mists,
text: Freeze, his Icemen following behind.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: (drawing his gun)
dialog: Did I use the wrong door again?
text: 215	Batman hurls his batarang, knocking Freeze's pistol free.
text: Batman and Robin race forward, engulfed by the rushing
dialog: force of Icemen.
text: HIS PISTOL flies into the hands of one of the Guests. A THUG
text: rams the Guest from behind, the gun bouncing into the air.
text: 215A	A swarm of armed SECURITY GUARDS and GUESTS swamp Freeze.
speaker_heading: 215B				FREEZE
text: When technology fails...brute force.
text: 215C	FREEZE moves like lightning, SMASHING guards with mighty
text: punches, WHIPPING guests flying across the room.
text: FREEZE'S PISTOL bounces from Guest, to Thug, to Guest like
text: a wildly fumbled football, a Thug finally tipping the soar-
text: ing gun back towards Freeze.
speaker_heading: 215D				FREEZE
dialog: Alright, everyone, chill!
text: 216	Freeze FIRES, turning a few guests and several exotic
text: flower arrangements into ice.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I should have been a decorator.
text: 217	Freeze starts for the stage.
text: 218	BATMAN and ROBIN are in mid-melee, fighting off an army
dialog: of Icemen.
text: 219	Batman SMASHES one Thug three times in the chin.
text: 220	Robin does a spinning side kick to another approaching
text: villain, then ducks, sending one villain crashing into
dialog: another.
text: 221	Batman grabs a Thug, throws him to Robin, who punches
text: him back to Batman who punches him back to Robin.
text: 222	Both punch him simultaneously, the Thug flying back
text: through the air. They begin fighting their way towards
dialog: the stage.
text: 223	FREEZE climbs onto the stage to face Poison Ivy.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Let me guess, Plant Girl? Vine Lady?
dialog: Ms. Moss?
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Listen, Captain Cold, the suit, maybe,
dialog: even though silver went out in the
dialog: 70's. But those boots are unforgivable.
dialog: What is it with men?
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I'd love to stand here all day and
dialog: exchange fashion tips but I'm kind
dialog: of pressed for time. So hand over
dialog: the diamond, Garden Gal, or I turn
dialog: you into mulch.
text: Ivy pulls a handful of dust from her belt-pouch, blows it
text: towards him. The dust swirls around his helmet. Ivy
text: frowns.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Pheromone dust. Designed to heat a
dialog: man's blood. Doesn't work on the
dialog: cold hearted. Now, if you please...
text: Freeze extends his gloved hand.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Well, if you insist.
text: Ivy hands him the diamond.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Clever little clover.
text: 224	Just then one of the Thugs flies across the room,
text: SHASHING into the back of the stage.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: That's my exit cue.
text: FREEZE races for his truck.
text: 225	BATMAN and ROBIN dispatch the last Iceman, make for the
dialog: stage.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (to Gordon)
dialog: You have eleven minutes to thaw those
dialog: guests, Commissioner.
text: 226	Batman and Robin race after the escaping Freeze and his
dialog: men.
text: 227	Ivy stares after them. She lifts a small souvenir. A tiny
text: glass globe that says Welcome To Gotham. Shakes the
text: bauble, the tiny city within suddenly covered by snow.
text: Gordon appears behind her.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Miss Ivy, you've just met one of
text: the most sinister men in Gotham.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: That's no man. That's a God!
text: Gordon moves off as the second Gorilla arrives on stage,
text: removes his mask. Bane.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Enough monkey business. We've got
dialog: work to do.
scene_heading: 228	EXT. GOTHAM CITY - NIGHT
text: A GIANT STATUE stands amidst Gotham's sky-scrapers.
speaker_heading: CLOSER.
text: Freeze in his Ice Truck, two Crony Trucks behind him,
text: race up the interconnecting bridges that crisscross
text: Gotham's skyline.
scene_heading: 229	INT. FREEZE'S TRUCK
text: FREEZE - POV. Gothamites veer their cars off the roadway in
text: his path as Freeze spots the statue. He reaches for his dashboard.
text: Freeze hits a flashing gun-shaped button on the dash.
scene_heading: 230	EXT. FREEZE'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: A giant freeze-gun atop the truck FIRES.
scene_heading: 231	EXT. GOTHAM ROOFTOPS - NIGHT
text: THE STATUE'S HEAD - CLOSE. Freezes, the neck of the giant
text: figure EXPLODING in a storm of ice.
text: 232	FREEZE'S TRUCK swerves off the road, leaping through the
text: hole in the statue's neck and racing onto its shoulder.
text: His Crony trucks follow, all racing away down the statue's
dialog: arm.
text: 233	THE BATMOBILE AND THE REDBIRD follow in close pursuit,
text: BLOWING through the hole in the statue's neck.
scene_heading: 234	INT. BATMOBILE
text: BATMAN - POV. The Freeze vehicles are heading towards the
text: hand of the statue. Batman hits a button.
text: 235	MONITOR - CLOSE. Flashing schematics of the various
text: trajectories of the Freeze vehicles and their imminent
text: jumps from the hand, over the abyss of the city, to the
text: lower rooftops beyond.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Pull back. You can't make the jump.
scene_heading: 236	EXT. REDBIRD
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: I can make it.
scene_heading: 237	EXT. STATUE'S ARM
text: The Batmobile is shooting down the arm, the Redbird close
dialog: behind
speaker_heading: 238				BATMAN
dialog: Pull back.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: I can make it.
text: Robin SHOOTS a wheelie, overtaking the Batmobile.
scene_heading: 239	INT. BATMOBILE
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Redbird control codes.
scene_heading: 240	MONITOR - CLOSE. Schematics for the Redbird flash.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Disable engine.
scene_heading: 241	EXT. REDBIRD - NIGHT
text: Robin's engine warning-light goes on. The motor begins to
text: DIE. The abyss is coming up fast. Robin side-grounds the
dialog: bike, SKIDDING.
scene_heading: 242	EXT. STATUE'S HAND - NIGHT
text: Freeze and his cronies split towards the separate fingers.
text: 243	SUPER-THRUSTERS fire and Freeze's truck clears the jump,
text: landing on the sloping roof on the other side of the
text: abyss.
text: 244	His Crony Trucks follow, taking different fingers, flying
text: into the air towards the rooftops beyond. Not high enough.
scene_heading: 246	EXT. ROOFTOP ABYSS - NIGHT
text: One Crony truck BLOWS into an elevated billboard, the other
text: EXPLODING into the opposing building.
scene_heading: 246A	EXT. ROOFTOPS
text: Freeze's truck hits the roof, breaks SCREECHING, spinning
text: 180 degrees, his freeze gun now pointing back over the abyss.
scene_heading: 247	EXT. STATUE'S HAND
text: The Redbird slides dangerously close to the end of the
text: finger and the abyss below, finally coming to a halt as
text: 248	the Batmobile ROCKETS its engine and roars past, flying
text: over the chasm.
text: 249	ROBIN stands on the fingertip, SHOUTING his rage into
dialog: the night.
scene_heading: 250	EXT. ROOFTOPS ABYSS
text: The Batmobile soars over the abyss towards Freeze's truck.
scene_heading: 251	INT. FREEZE'S TRUCK - NIGHT
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: It's a cold town.
text: Freeze hits the flashing gun-shaped button on the dash.
scene_heading: 252	EXT. FREEZE'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: The freeze-gun FIRES its deadly blast, hitting the
dialog: Batmobile.
scene_heading: 252A	EXT. STATUE'S HAND - NIGHT
text: Robin watches as the flying Batmobile begins to ice over
text: from Freeze's cryonic blast.
scene_heading: 254	INT. BATMOBILE
text: The controls are frozen. A monitor flashes: SYSTEMS
speaker_heading: FAILURE.
text: 255	BATMAN - POV. The windscreen is covering with ice.
scene_heading: 257	EXT. ROOFTOP ABYSS
text: The Batmobile is falling across the abyss like frozen
text: sculpture. Suddenly the windscreen EXPLODES as Batman is
text: catapulted through the glass like a torpedo, flying into
text: the air high above the busy city.
scene_heading: 257A	EXT. LOWER ROOFTOPS
text: The frozen Batmobile drops to the safety of the rooftops on
text: the other side of the abyss.
scene_heading: 258	EXT. NIGHT SKY
text: Batman flips, angling down, WHIPPING his cape open like
text: the wings of a giant dark angel, riding the urban winds
text: in a racing glide towards Freeze's truck below.
scene_heading: 260	INT. FREEZE'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: 261	THE SHADOW OF THE BAT falls over the open cab of Freeze's
dialog: truck.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Uh-oh.
text: 262	FREEZE - POV. Batman, cape extended, soars directly over
dialog: the cab.
scene_heading: 263	EXT. FREEZE'S TRUCK
text: Batman SMASHES through the glass driver's dome, wrenching
text: Freeze out of the cab, and soaring towards...
scene_heading: 267	EXT. LOWER ROOFTOP
text: Batman lands standing in the moonlight, a stunned Freeze
text: rolling out of his cape, diamond still in hand.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm putting you on ice.
scene_heading: 268	EXT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT - VFX
text: The moonlit mansion sits on its clifftop perch above the
text: river. PUSH IN as a portion of the cliff BURNS AWAY TO
text: REVEAL...
scene_heading: 269	INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT
text: Bruce and Dick argue.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I could have made the jump.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You could have splattered your
text: brains on the side of the building.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: This is no partnership. You're never
dialog: going to trust me.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Trust you? You can't even keep
dialog: your head on the job. All you could
dialog: think about was Poison Ivy.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You just can't stand that she
dialog: might have wanted me instead of
dialog: you; that's your idea of friendship,
dialog: isn't it, Bruce? You have to have
dialog: everything. Your house. Your rules.
dialog: Your way or the highway. It's
dialog: Batman and Robin not Robin and
dialog: Batman. I'm sick of it.
text: Dick is right up in Bruce's face.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yes it's my rules. My rules that
dialog: keep us alive. And if you want to
dialog: stay in this house and on this
dialog: team then you'll abide by them.
scene_heading: 270	INT. ALFRED'S QUARTERS - NIGHT
text: Alfred is completing a cassette tape.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I have tried every address I
dialog: know for you. I am praying this
dialog: reaches you. We have very little
dialog: time.
text: Alfred puts the tape in the envelope. (OVER) a KNOCK.
text: Bruce ENTERS.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Congratulations on your
text: apprehension of Mr. Freeze. Batman
dialog: monopolized the evening news.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Thanks.
text: But the billionaire seems anything but celebratory.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Is there something wrong, sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred, am I pigheaded? Is it always
dialog: my way or the highway?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Why, yes, actually. Death and chance
dialog: stole your parents. But rather than
dialog: become a victim, you have done
dialog: everything in your power to control
dialog: the fates. For what is Batman if
dialog: not an effort to master the chaos
dialog: that sweeps our world, an attempt
dialog: to control death itself.
text: 270A	BRUCE - POV. Out the window, young Bruce and Alfred lay
text: wreaths on a windy grave. Alfred puts his arm around the
text: boy, holds him close.
text: 270B	BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: But I can't can I?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No, my boy. I'm afraid none of us can.
scene_heading: 271	INT. WAYNE MANOR GARAGE - NIGHT
text: The competition bike's headlight goes out.
speaker_heading: 272	WIDER
text: Barbara walks the bike steahtlfully back into the garage.
text: 273	A HAND touches her shoulder. Barbara moves fast, flipping
text: the assailant over her shoulder in an expert judo move.
text: 274	She spins to face...Dick. Floored in every sense of the
text: word. Barbara's demeanor suddenly changes. All school
dialog: girl politeness.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh. I'm so sorry. I'd just never
dialog: seen anything like it. So massive.
dialog: I took it out for a spin. I do so
dialog: hope I didn't inconvenience you.
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: Ah yes, the outfit. For a...costume
dialog: party. Just trying it out. One never
dialog: knows how leather will wear.
dialog: (helping him up)
dialog: Judo lessons at school, you know.
dialog: All the rage, really. I suppose
dialog: they've taken better than I thought.
dialog: Again, my greatest of pardons.
text: She's gone before Dick has a chance to speak. he stares
text: after her. All is not as it seems in Wayne Manor.
scene_heading: 275	EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT
text: Moonlight illuminates the familiar castle out of
dialog: nightmare.
scene_heading: 276	INT. ARKHAM ASYLUM CORRIDOR
text: Several ARMED GUARDS are rolling a giant sub-zero refrig-
text: erator on a gurney, the door chained and padlocked shut.
text: Freeze is jammed inside, face visible through the torn off
text: freezer compartment door.
speaker_heading: HEAD GUARD
dialog: You're the common cold. And we're
dialog: the cure. Welcome home, frost face.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Allow me to break the ice. My name
dialog: is Freeze. Learn it well for it is
dialog: the chilling sound of your doom.
scene_heading: 277	INT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - FREEZE'S CELL - NIGHT
text: Glowing rings on the floor and ceiling project a shimmer-
text: ing column of snowing cold within the center of the room.
text: Two GUARDS dump a suitless Freeze out of his frigidaire
text: prison onto the floor, begin dragging him into the cold field.
text: 278	Freeze throws off the Guards in a sudden fury, SMASHING
text: one in the head with closed fists, kicking the other in the face.
text: 279	He rushes for the door. Mistake. As his body passes out
text: of the hypothermic field, he tumbles to his knees, his
text: skin turning gray as he begins to wither and die.
speaker_heading: GUARD (OVER)
dialog: Look at him stew. How do you like
dialog: your bad guy, medium or well done?
text: 280	The Guards stand over him, Laughing as he crawls back
text: over the filed threshold. His color begin to return to
dialog: normal.
speaker_heading: GUARD #2
dialog: Get used to it. You're gonna be here
dialog: a very long time.
text: Freeze looks up at the Guard who stands now at the wall
text: sink, washing his hands. A beat. Then Freeze smiles.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I'm afraid not. You see the means
dialog: of my liberation is in your hands.
dialog: Sadly, you will not live to see it.
scene_heading: 281	EXT. GOTHAM ALLEY - NIGHT
text: The entrance to an abandoned Turkish bath-house. Ivy and
text: Bane approach a boarded-up portal.
speaker_heading: IVY
text: Batface and Birdbrain turned out to
dialog: be more resistant to my love dust
dialog: than expected. No matter, I'll give
dialog: them a stronger dose. Next time,
dialog: they'll literally be dying for me.
text: 282	Bane SMASHES through the wooden boards with joined fists,
text: two by fours splintering like balsa. They disappear inside.
scene_heading: 283	INT. BLOSSOM STREET TURKISH BATHS - NIGHT
text: Abandoned. Mid-eastern furniture crumbles. Slaves and
text: sycophants cover the walls, weeping color.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: A fixer-upper, yes. But with a
text: certain homey charm.
text: That's when the shadows in the cave begin to move. One
text: slips across the doorway. More appear on all sides,
text: encroaching.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Ah, a minus. Current tenants.
text: One figure steps into a column of moonlight. Pale. The
dialog: toughest of urban predators. These are a gang of punks
dialog: called the GOLUMS.
speaker_heading: GOLUM
dialog: Hello, pretty.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Hello yourself. I love this place. I
dialog: hope it's priced to sell.
speaker_heading: GOLUM
dialog: We love you. You look good enough to
dialog: eat.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Oh, that I am. Come and get me.
dialog: If you can.
text: The Golums close in. IVY SLAMS the activation stud on
text: Bane's chest.
text: 284	BANE - CLOSE. Venom is pumped from his backpack through
text: the tubes on his back into his skull.
text: 285	The Golums attack. But Bane hurls them off like animals.
text: Kick and beats them, tossing them into walls, until the
text: survivors race away.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: For the strong, silent type, you are
dialog: most persuasive. Let's redecorate.
dialog: (crossing the baths)
dialog: First, the light is all wrong.
text: 286	Bane rips a hanging board from the ceiling, the old
text: wooden planks tumbling to the floor, sudden moonlight
text: streaming in from above.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Also, what is this floor?
text: 287	Bane stomps the floor, now revealing the dirt beneath.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Au natural. Still, I've always
text: hankered for something on the water.
text: 288	Bane SMASHES a water main with his foot, irrigating the
dialog: soil.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Now a little color. It took God
dialog: seven days to create paradise.
text: Ivy withdraws a handful of tiny seeds from Bane's satchel.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Let's see if I can do better.
text: 289	Ivy drops the tiny plants on the ground. They begin to
text: sprout into vines that spawn fast-budding flowers.
text: Ivy lifts the Welcome to Gotham Bauble in her hand.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Bane, I've found a fellow who strikes
dialog: my fancy. A cool customer, yes. Icy
dialog: demeanor, no question. But I detect
dialog: a certain ruthless charm I may be
dialog: able to use to my advantage.
dialog: (off the dead thugs)
scene_heading: 290	INT. WAYNE MANOR - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Candlelit. A table set for two. Alfred fills Bruce's wine
text: goblet, walks away. His forehead beads with sweat. A man
dialog: hiding pain.
text: 291	BRUCE - POV. Across the table sits Ivy. She licks her
dialog: lips.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Bruce?
text: Bruce blinks. Looks again. Not Ivy at all but Julie.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: You're not even listening to me.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What? I'm sorry. You were saying...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: We've been going out over a year
dialog: now and...Okay, here goes. Bruce,
dialog: I want to spend my life with you.
text: Ivy saunters up behind Bruce, runs her hands down his chest.
text: Bruce rises, shaking off the vision. Goes over to Julie.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Julie, I'm not the marrying kind.
dialog: There are things about me you
dialog: wouldn't understand.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: I know you're a dedicated bachelor.
dialog: That you've had a your wild nights.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Wild doesn't exactly cover it.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: But there's nothing you've done
dialog: under the cover of darkness I
dialog: couldn't learn to understand.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I wouldn't bet on that.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: I'm betting on you. You'll make
dialog: someone a good husband one day.
dialog: But I can't wait around forever.
dialog: Don't answer now. Just think it
dialog: over.
dialog: (leaning close)
dialog: Here's some food for thought.
text: They kiss passionately. Bruce opens his eyes. He's kissing
text: Ivy. He recoils. But it's only Julie before him, looking
text: up, puzzled.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Who's Ivy?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: You just called me Ivy. Who's Ivy?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I wish I knew.
scene_heading: 292	INT. BATCAVE - ROBIN'S COSTUME VAULT - NIGHT
text: (OVER) loud MUSIC. Various magazine covers of Robin. Dick
text: is at his computer terminal, staring at a monitor.
text: 293	MONITOR - CLOSE. A newsphoto of the flower ball
dialog: survivors.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Enhance detail, 14 to 19.
text: A corner of the screen is highlighted, the IMAGE expands.
speaker_heading: IVY.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Who are you?
text: (OVER) an ALARM SOUNDS. The screen suddenly changes to an
text: IMAGE of Barbara climbing out of her window, rappelling down
text: an exterior wall.
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
dialog: Alert! Unauthorized motion within
dialog: specified parameters.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Got ya!
text: Dick is up fast, heading for the door.
scene_heading: 295	INT. WAYNE MANOR GARAGE - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER
text: Barbara has donned her leathers once again. She mounts the
text: competition bike. Kick-starts the ENGINE, peeling out into
dialog: the night.
text: Dick rolls another racer out of hiding in the shadows. Pulls on
text: his racking helmet. He kicks his ENGINE and starts after her.
scene_heading: 296	EXT. GOTHAM ALLEY - NIGHT
text: Groups of motorcycle gangs have gathered. Each is represented
text: by a single racer. Leather clad. Costumed. Dyed hair. Pierced
text: faces. Boys and girls for whom speed is a drug, the streets their
dialog: home.
text: Barbara pulls up her bike. A rider (BANKER) looks her up
dialog: and down.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: What's the entry fee?
speaker_heading: BANKER
dialog: Two-fifty.
text: Barbara nods, hands the cash. Another biker (SPIKE) steps
dialog: forward.
speaker_heading: SPIKE
dialog: You got a handle?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Folks call me Three-Jump.
speaker_heading: SPIKE
dialog: You're the babe won the tunnel run
dialog: two nights ago. That was trike
dialog: racing. This is the big time. Maybe
dialog: you should ride my hog instead.
text: Barbara smiles.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: How about a side bet?
text: As Spike and Barbara move in line beside the other racers,
text: another helmeted racer emerges from the shadows to pay his
text: entry fee. His face hidden by his helmet, Barbara can't
dialog: see that it's Dick.
text: The racers, all helmeted, are in their starting positions.
text: Engines are REVVED. Banker raises a pistol in the air and
speaker_heading: FIRES.
text: 298	Bikers SHOOT into the street. Some go over the tops of
text: 299	cars, others across the tops of stoops. Barbara watches as a
text: biker beside her careens into an EXPLODING pile of trash cans.
text: 300	Two bikers are going neck and neck towards a racing
text: 301	truck. They split at the last instant, fly up off parked
text: 302	cars, then hit the ground, one SPINNING OUT, the other
text: taking a position at the front of the pack.
text: 303	Barbara, Spike, two others hold the lead, leaving the
text: rest in the dust. One of the bikers hits an oil skid,
text: flies into a FIREBALL.
text: 304	THE FINISH LINE is a series of flashing yellow warning
text: beacons atop the incomplete construction of a draw-bridge
text: in the near distance.
text: The race is down to three, Barbara, Spike and a third
text: biker, all racing now onto the bridge, riveted steel
text: beneath their wheels.
text: 305	THE FINISH LINE is coming up fast, and just beyond the
text: line of flashing cones, an abyss separating the two as yet
text: unconnected sides of the bridge. The trick is to cross the
dialog: finish line first, but not so fast you can't brake before
text: going over the edge into the water below.
text: 306	Spike is trying to keep up. But he's coming up on the
text: finish line too fast for his taste.
speaker_heading: SPIKE
dialog: Crazy broad.
text: 307	He hits his BRAKES, slowing, falling out of position.
text: Barbara looks across to see the racer on the other side.
text: Barbara can't see his face, but it's Dick.
text: 308	The finish line is coming up fast. Instead of braking,
text: both GUN their ENGINES.
text: 309	THE FINISH LINE - CLOSE. Barbara flies over the line,
text: Dick a hair behind her, and then both shoot over the edge
text: of the unfinished bridge, into the air, soaring high above
text: the abyss.
text: 310	Dick's front wheel hits the metal roadway on the other
text: side of the gap, spinning rubber catching steel.
text: 311	Barbara's front wheel hits the edge badly, rolling
dialog: backward.
text: 312	Dick spins over his shoulder, sees what's happening.
text: Barbara's bike is losing purchase, slipping backwards
text: over the edge.
text: 313	Dick ditches his still moving bike and helmet, rolling
text: off on tucked shoulder, leaping towards the edge as
text: Barbaras bike finally slips, she and her hog tumbling
text: downwards into the abyss.
text: 314	Dick's jump sends him over the edge, hands extended, feet
text: catching the lip of the bridge, hand grabbing Barbara's
text: ankle, her bike plummeting beneath her as her helmet falls
text: into the water below.
text: 315	Dick hangs by one foot, holding a dangling Barbara by her
dialog: ankle.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: So, this is where you hang out.
scene_heading: 316	EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - NIGHT
text: Barbara stands in the b.g. receiving her winnings from
text: Banker and Spike. Dick rights his bike as she approaches.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I could have made it, you know. I
dialog: didn't need your help.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Whatever you say, lady. It's all in
dialog: a day's work for me.
text: Barbara tries to hand Dick her winnings.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: This is to replace the bike I lost.
dialog: I'll get you the rest.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Keep it.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Of course, Dick Grayson, ward of
text: the fabulously wealthy Bruce Wayne.
dialog: Why would you need a few hundred
dialog: dollars?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Hey, what's your problem?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I guess, the truth is I'm just not
dialog: comfortable with the idle rich. Even
dialog: when they try to act like heroes.
text: Dick pats the back of his seat.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Well you better get comfortable real
dialog: fast, sister. Cause we've only got
text: one bike and it's a long walk home.
scene_heading: 319	INT. WAYNE MANOR - GARAGE
text: Dick and Barbara dismout.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I started racing after my parents
dialog: died. There was something about the
dialog: speed, the danger, that took me out
dialog: of myself, that made the hurt
dialog: go away. You wouldn't understand.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You'd be surprised.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Street racing isn't exactly an
dialog: acceptable major at Oxbridge. They
dialog: kicked me out. it doesn't matter.
dialog: I've won enough money to do what
dialog: I've always dreamed.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Just don't tell me you're hoping to
text: run away and join the circus.
text: They head towards the entrance tot he house.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Alfred has supported me my whole
dialog: life. Now I'm going to pay him back.
dialog: I'm going to liberate him from his
dialog: dismal life of servitude.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Servants, Masters, it's ridiculous.
dialog: Alfred is the sweetest, most noble
dialog: man alive and he's subjugated all
text: his life and dreams to someone else.
scene_heading: 320	INT. WAYNE MANOR - FOYER - WALKING - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: DICK
text: Alfred and Bruce are like family.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Paying someone to prepare your
dialog: meals and do your laundry and
dialog: clean your dishes, you call that
dialog: family?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Alfred's happy here.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Happy.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: You honestly don't know, do you?
dialog: You can't even see what's in
dialog: front of your own eyes.
text: They've reached the main stair. Dick stares at her
dialog: puzzled.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: Look at his skin. At how he's hiding
dialog: the pain all the time. Can't you see
dialog: it? Alfred's sick.
text: And with that, Barbara disappears upstairs. Dick stares
dialog: after her.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (OVER)
dialog: Alfreds not sick.
text: Bruce steps from the shadows. Sits now at the foot of the
dialog: steps.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: He's dying. And I can't deal with it.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: But he's never said a word-
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You know Alfred. He'd never say
dialog: Anything. But I can tell. Until
dialog: you came along, Alfred was the
dialog: only family I ever had. Without
dialog: him, I don't know how I would
dialog: have survived. He saved my life,
dialog: Dick. And I've never told him.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Talk to him, Bruce. There's nothing
dialog: worse than losing someone without
dialog: telling them how you feel.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm scared, Dick. Maybe for the
dialog: first time in my life. I'm really
dialog: scared.
scene_heading: 321	INT. ARCKHAM ASYLUM - FREEZE'S CELL - NIGHT
text: Freeze stands within the anti-thermic field, crafting a
text: tiny ice sculpture of his wife. He lifts the miniature
text: gearworks from an alarm clock, places the ice sculpture
text: atop of it, the statuette beginning to turn. He covers the
text: figure with a drinking glass.
speaker_heading: GUARD(OVER)
dialog: Hey Icehead, you got a visitor.
speaker_heading: 322	WIDER
text: A GUARD stands by the door.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Your sister's here to see you.
scene_heading: 323	FREEZE - CLOSE. Puzzled.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Sister?
text: The Second Guard ENTERS, followed by a woman in a cloak.
text: None other than Poison ivy.
scene_heading: 324	INT. ARKHAM LOCK-UP - NIGHT
text: A tiny basement room with a single barred window where
text: prisoner's effects are kept. Mannequins display familiar
text: costumes, Joker's, Riddler's, Freeze's.
text: 325	A GUARD sits against the wall, watching TV. Suddenly two
text: fists SMASH through the cement wall and grab the chair,
text: wrenching the seated Guard through the wall in a storm of
dialog: dust.
text: Bane ENTERS, walks to Freeze's suit.
scene_heading: 326	INT. FREEZE'S CELL
text: The two Guards stand by the console as the door seals
text: behind Pam.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Don't mind us, ma'am. You can converse
dialog: freely.
text: But Pam isn't interested in Freeze, instead walks to the
dialog: Guards.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Oh, I don't mind you at all.
text: Pam begins a saunter around the room, shedding her cloak
text: to reveal her skintight Ivy costume.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: You're not that attractive. Pretty
dialog: average I'd say. But your fantasies
dialog: aren't average, are they?
scene_heading: 327	INT. ARKHAM HALLWAY - HALLWAY
text: (OVER) ALARMS. Bane, rolling Freeze's suit in a shopping
text: cart, barrels down the hallway, KNOCKING Guards and
text: Doctors into walls.
scene_heading: 328	INT. FREEZE'S CELL
text: Pam's saunter has brought her back to the two mesmerized
dialog: Guards.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Men. The most absurd of all Gods
dialog: creatures. We give you life and we
dialog: can take it back just as easily.
text: She holds one Guard's chin in each hand. Leans in to kiss
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: What if I told you one kiss from me
dialog: would kill you?
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Right
speaker_heading: GUARD #2
dialog: Whatever.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I really am to die for.
text: She kisses first one, then the other. They CHOKE, fall.
dialog: Dead.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Impressive
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Well, I, my most unabominable
dialog: snowman, have been impressed by you.
dialog: In fact I propose a pairing. So I'm
dialog: here to set you free.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: An enticing offer. But what does the
dialog: lady want in return?
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Let's cool it for now. There's
dialog: someone I want you to meet.
text: 330	Ivy presses a button and the door slides open. Bane
text: runs in, wheeling Freeze's suit. Ivy seals the door
text: behind him.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Ah, a laundry service that delivers.
text: Bane rolls the cart across the cryonic field. Freeze
text: begins to dress.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I love that belt. What are you,
dialog: about a fifty Big and Tall?
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I always go a size smaller. Makes
dialog: me look slimmer.
text: 331	FREEZE - POV. His watch like status display shows his
text: power supply. Dangerously low. Auxiliary Power Only.
text: Freeze opens his sleeve compartments. Empty.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: They've confiscated my generator
dialog: diamonds. I'm running on empty.
text: 332	(OVER) the SHOUTS of approaching Guards. The flame of a
text: laser torch begins to cut around the side of the front
dialog: door.
text: 333/	IVY hits the Venom pump. Bane lifts his fists and tries
text: 334	to SHASH the far wall. It doesn't break.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Not good.
text: 335	(OVER) the SHOUTS of more Guards coming down the hall.
text: Freeze reaches for his holster. Empty.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: No gun. How disarming.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I wonder if I can get a cell with
dialog: a view of the gardens?
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Dear daisy, don't despair.
text: 336	Freeze walks to a sink set into the cell wall. He turns
text: on the water. Freeze cracks his gauntlet seal, cryo-gas
text: HISSING out.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Always winterize your pipes.
text: 337	Freeze aims the gas jet at the spigot. PIPES around the
text: room begin to freeze, bulging with the cold, frozen water
text: within them splitting metal, rushing towards, CRACKING,
text: the stone wall.
scene_heading: 338	EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT
text: The wall of Freeze's turreted isolation tower begins to
speaker_heading: CRACK.
scene_heading: 339	INT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - FREEZE'S CELL
text: The wall has split apart, revealing the night beyond.
text: Bane, Ivy, and Freeze look down at the rushing river far
dialog: below.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I hate heights.
text: 340	The cell door flies off its hinges.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: You'll hate prison more.
text: The three villains jump.
scene_heading: 341	EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT
text: Three tiny figures plummet towards the fast rushing waters
dialog: below.
scene_heading: 342	INT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT - WALKING
text: Bruce walks with Alfred through the old house, shutting out
dialog: lights.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Are you well, old friend?
text: Alfred stops, stares into his charge's eyes, then turns
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I am as well as can be expected.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred, I know you're sick -- I
dialog: can get you the best doctors.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I've seen the best doctors--! A
dialog: gentleman does not discuss his
dialog: health. It's not civilized. I
dialog: hope I've taught you at least
dialog: that much, young man.
text: Bruce bites back a bitter smile. He knows better than to
dialog: push him when he's like this.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Have you ever regretted your life
dialog: working here, Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Attending to heroes? No sir. My
dialog: Only regret is that I was never
dialog: able to be out there with you.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Not all heroes wear masks.
text: Alfred smiles.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred, if I've never told you...I
dialog: just want to say...
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Yes?
text: Bruce looks away, fighting tears, unable to say the words.
text: 342A	BRUCE - POV. Out the window, a young Bruce plays hide
text: and seek with Alfred, the old Butler gone behind a hedge,
text: then back again.
text: 342B	BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (running in)
text: Freeze has escaped.
text: OUT THE WINDOW. The Batsignal shines in the night sky.
scene_heading: 343	INT. LIMO - NIGHT
text: Filled with flowers. Bane sits at the wheel, Ivy and Freeze
text: in back, watching the Snowy Cones Ice Cream Factory,
text: surrounded now by a police perimeter.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: My reserves are exhausted. I must
dialog: have the gems that power my suit.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: You are looking unseasonably hot.
dialog: Let's go inside and grab your rocks.
text: The Batmobile SCREECHES up. Batman and Robin race inside.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: In my weakened state I am no match
dialog: for the bat and the bird.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: You leave Batman and Robin to me.
text: Freeze looks skeptical. Ivy smiles seductively.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Trust me. Vegetable magnetism.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Fine. While I retrieve my diamonds,
dialog: you and meatloaf will bring my wife
dialog: to your lair. She's frozen in -
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Hold it. You never said anything
dialog: about a wife, frozen or otherwise-
text: Freeze moves fast, grabbing her neck, SMASHING her against
text: the seat back. Bane moves in but Ivy SHOOS him off with a
dialog: gesture.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: You will rescue my wife
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: OK, OK. Ms. Ivy to the rescue. Now
dialog: where do I find your brittle bride?
scene_heading: 346	INT. FREEZE'S LAIR
text: Police tagged and tapped. Batman and Robin examine
text: Freezes lab. Commissioner Gordon ENTERS, drops a video
text: disk in a console player.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: There's no sign he came back here
dialog: after the escape. We pulled this
text: off the surveillance cameras at
dialog: Arkham.
text: 346A	MONITOR - CLOSE. The three villains daring aerial escape.
text: Batman hits a switch. The image of Ivy fills the screen.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: She's definitely part of this. It's
dialog: weird, for a while Ivy was all I
dialog: could think about. But then...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I know. The feeling just vanished.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: I can't believe we were fighting
text: over a bad guy.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Bad, yes. Guy, no. This is one
text: majorly beautiful evil person.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
text: I'm totally over her. Positively.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Me too. Great stems, though.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Umm-hmmmm.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Definitely.
text: Batman has gone to the walk-in freezer. Examines a wall of
text: food. He lifts a frozen oriental dinner. The secret vault
text: swings open.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: How did you...?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (off the box)
dialog: Open Sesame...Chicken.
scene_heading: 346B	INT. FREEZE'S VAULT
text: Batman and Robin ENTER, examine Nora Fries in her
text: sarcophagus.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: She's still alive. He's adapted his
dialog: freezing technology to reverse
dialog: McGregor's Syndrome.
dialog: (off a scrolling monitor)
dialog: He's even found a cure for the early
dialog: stages of the disease.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Can he save her?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No. Her case is too advanced. But
dialog: maybe, someday, with more research-
text: 346B	FAIRY-LIKE SPIRALS begin winding through the room.
text: Batman and Robin, both dazed, follow the dust through a
text: snaking passage, wrench open two service doors TO REVEAL...
scene_heading: 346C	INT. SNOWY CONES FACTORY - INDUSTRIAL BASEMENT
text: Bane stands atop a staircase overlooking an industrial
text: basement crisscrossed by catwalks above giant mixing vats
text: and conveyer belts. He hits a switch, the machinery WHIRRING
dialog: to life.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No beauty...
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Just the beast.
text: BATMAN rushes the monster. Bane SIDESWIPES him, sending him
text: flying off the stairs towards the basement below.
text: Robin uses Batman's distraction to SMASH into Bane's chest.
text: Robin bounces off, landing hard atop the landing.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Ouch.
dialog: (standing)
dialog: Anymore at home like you?
text: The two begin to fight atop the stairs.
scene_heading: 346D	INT. SNOWY CONES ICE CREAM FACTORY
text: The front doors BLOW open. Gordon and the Cops stare up
text: to face Mr. Freeze, standing atop the steps.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I hate uninvited guests.
text: The Cops race up the stairs towards Freeze. He pulls a lever
text: marked COOLANT GAS. VENTS around the room begin to HISS blue
dialog: freezing gas.
scene_heading: 346E	INT. SNOWY CONES INDUSTRIAL BASEMENT
text: Batman has landed in a giant ice cream mixer. He rolls clear
text: of the giant stirring arm, flipping out of the vat to face...
text: Poison Ivy. She smiles, blows a handful of dust into his face.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I must confess, the combination of
text: heroic daring-do and an anatomically
text: correct rubber suit puts fire in a
text: girl's...lips.
text: She leans in to kiss him. Batman stares a beat, shakes it
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Why do all the gorgeous ones have to
dialog: be homicidal maniacs? Is it me?
text: 346F	BATMAN - POV. Bane is spinning Robin over his head.
text: Batman races up the steps towards his partner.
scene_heading: 346G	INT. SNOWY CONES FACTORY
text: The Cops are fighting through the HISSING coolant gas
text: towards Freeze at the top of the stairs. Freeze reaches
dialog: for another lever.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Why don't you boys slip into
dialog: something more comfortable?
text: 346H	THE ICY STPES - CLOSE. SNAP into a steep, curving ramp.
text: Freeze PUNCHES the lead Cop backwards into his shivering
text: cohorts, the police tumbling in a slipping pile down to
text: the floor below.
scene_heading: 346I	INT. INDUSTRIAL BASEMENT - TOP OF STAIRS
text: Bane hurls Robin down the steps. Batman SMASHES into Bane,
text: both falling off the platform, taking their fight to a catwalk below.
scene_heading: 346J	INT. BASEMENT FLOOR
text: Robin stands, behind him a giant miller's wheel carries
text: planks of wood through a chopper and back up as pallets
text: of popsicle sticks.
speaker_heading: IVY (OVER)
text: Her pretty birdie.
text: Robin spins to face Ivy. She blows a pile of dust into his
text: face. She begins advancing, backing him towards the chopper
dialog: blades.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Give it up. If you threw yourself-
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: (leaning in)
dialog: At you? Polly want a kiss?
text: She leans in, lips pursed.
text: 346K	ON THE CATWALK OVERHEAD Bane's mighty BLOWS back Batman
text: towards the edge of the catwalk.
text: Robin looks from Ivy to Batman, grabs a strut on the miller's
text: wheel, the giant cog lifting him up towards the catwalk and
dialog: his partner.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I must be losing my touch.
scene_heading: 346L	INT. SNOWY CONES FACTORY
text: Freeze is striding through the mists towards his diamond
text: vault. More Cops rush him from the HISSING gas.
text: FREEZE moves like lightning, WHIPPING billy clubs from the
text: holsters of two police, using them like disconnected nunchucks,
text: KNOCKING the cops unconscious in a flurry of SLAMS and JABS.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Stick around.
text: A COP hits the wall. Beside him a button reads; EMERGENCY
text: HEAT. He SLAMS the stud, filaments coming to life, the room
text: glowing red.
text: Freeze's watch begins to flash. No power.
scene_heading: 346M	INT. CATWALK
text: Bane kicks Batman off the end of the catwalk as Robin leaps
text: onto the villain. Robin and Bane begin fighting again.
scene_heading: 346N	INT. CONVEYOR BELT
text: Batman lands on his back on a moving belt that is feeding
text: ancient tubs of ice cream into a clown shaped flash freezer.
text: Ivy jumps atop the caped crusader, their faces close.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: You bring out the animal in me.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I should have brought my leash.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Enough sweet talk.
text: With that Ivy blows another handful of dust into Batman's
text: face. Ivy licks her lips. Leans in for a kiss.
text: At the last second, Batman averts his face, wrenching Ivy
text: to the floor just ahead of the clown's freezing maw.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (mustering all his will)
dialog: You're going to jail.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I'm a lover not a fighter. That's
dialog: why every Poison Ivy action figure
text: comes complete with...him.
text: BANE stands atop a giant storage vat, a dazed Robin hanging
text: in his hand. Bane tosses the boy aside, slide, feet first,
text: down a conveyer belt and double fists Batman, CRASHING,
text: into the wall.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I'm off to find Bachelor Number Two.
dialog: Try not to make a mess when you die.
scene_heading: 346O	INT. SNOWY CONES ICE CREAM FACTORY
text: The room is growing even hotter. Freeze stagger towards
text: his diamond vault, his flesh turning ray.
text: With his last strength, Freeze wrenches open his safe,
text: filling his sleeve power compartments with diamonds, his
text: color returning.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
text: Ahh. Chilled to perfection.
text: Freeze hits his watch, the villain now suddenly encased
dialog: in ice.
speaker_heading: 346P	WIDER
text: The Cops are warming back into action, draw guns, FIRE,
text: bullets bouncing off Freeze's armor of ice, ricocheting
text: into the walls.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Superman, eat your heart out.
text: Freeze starts towards his weapons locker.
scene_heading: 346Q	INT. INDUSTRIAL BASEMENT
text: Bane SMASHES Batman into the wall. Advances. At the last
text: second, Batman FIRES a Batclub, HITTING Bane in the head
text: stunning him.
text: 346R	BATMAN - POV. Ivy is closing in on Robin.
scene_heading: 346S	INT. SNOWY CONES ICE CREAM FACTORY
text: The Cops rush Freeze. The villain whips a small icing jewel
text: from his weapons locker, the floor GLOWS, suddenly covered
dialog: with ice.
text: The Cops begin slipping on the glassy floor in classic
text: Keystone style, ending up sprawled on their backs.
text: Freeze stands, pulsing with power, this icing cannon now
text: under one arm. He lifts his pistol in his free hand. Points
text: at the police.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: All right coppers, Freeze.
dialog: He FIRES.
scene_heading: 346T	INT. INDUSTRIAL BASEMENT
text: Ivy has Robin up against a giant vat.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Stop living in the shadow of the
dialog: big bad bat. You don't need him.
dialog: (blows more dust)
dialog: You deserve your own legend. Your
text: own bright shining signal in the
dialog: sky. Let me guide you. Let me...
dialog: (touches his face)
dialog: ...Touch you. Kiss you.
text: He can't resist, about to kiss her. A tiny batarang hits
text: his cheek.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Remember the victim at the airport.
text: Toxins introduced through the mouth.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Why is she so desperate to kiss us?
dialog: I'm betting her lips are poison.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: A poison kiss? You have some real
dialog: issues with women, you know that?
dialog: (advancing)
dialog: You just couldn't stand that she
dialog: was about to kiss me.
dialog: (shoves him)
dialog: Couldn't stand that something might
dialog: be mine and not yours. Could you?!
text: Robin shoves him harder still. In frustration, Batman
text: delivers a fantastic roundhouse, sending Robin SMASHING
text: into a wall.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Damn.
text: Batman tries to help Robin up. Robin shrugs him off, stands.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Ivy's right. I don't need you. I'm
dialog: going solo. I want my own signal
text: in the sky.
text: Batman looks around. Ivy and Bane are gone.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (arriving)
dialog: What happened? How'd they get away?
text: But the caped crusader doesn't have an answer.
scene_heading: 347	INT. FREEZE'S HIDDEN CHAMBER
text: Ivy enters through the snaking passage. She turns to face
text: Freeze's wife, still in her frozen sarcophagus.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: So sorry, Ms. Fridigaire. I'm just
dialog: not good with competition.
text: Ivy pulls the main power switch. Status lights flash red.
scene_heading: 350	INT. BLOSSOM STREET TURKISH BATHS - DAWN
text: Transformed. Sunlight streams in through the broken
text: ceiling. The ground thrives, now a rich garden.
text: 351	IVY ENTERS, strolls through the gardens into a small
text: 352	ante-room where Freeze sits over his freezing engine,
text: having ZAPPED the walls with his pistol, the room now
text: a world of ice.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Make yourself right at home.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Where is my wife?
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: There was nothing I could do. Batman
text: deactivated her. She's dead.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: You lie!
text: 353	Freeze lunges for Ivy. Bane steps between them. Mistake.
text: Freeze hurls him across the room. Ivy stills Bane with a
dialog: gesture.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I'm sorry.
text: Ivy reaches up, holding the snowflake necklace between her
text: and the looming Freeze. Freeze stops, takes the chain in
text: his hand.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Their bones will turn to ice. Their
dialog: blood will freeze in my hands.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Kill them. Of course. But why stop
dialog: there? Why should only Batman and
dialog: Robin die while the society that
dialog: created them goes unpunished?
text: Ivy lifts the frozen Gotham bauble off the iced table.
text: Turns it over in her hand absentmindedly. Freeze stares at
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Yes. I shall replay the world
dialog: for sentencing me to a life without
dialog: the warmth of human comfort. I will
text: blanket the city in endless winter.
dialog: First Gotham and then the world.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Just what I had in mind. Everything
dialog: dead on Earth except us. A chance
dialog: for mother nature to start again.
dialog: (she lifts a flower)
dialog: Plants and flowers are the oldest
dialog: species on the planet yet they are
dialog: defenseless against man. Sorry hon,
dialog: this is for science.
dialog: (she crushes the flower)
text: Behold the dawn of a new age.
text: From a canisters labeled PROJECT GILGAMESH, Ivy removes a
text: savage, other-worldly plant with HISSING fangs.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I have created a race of plants
dialog: with the strength of the deadliest
dialog: animals. Once you have frozen
dialog: mankind, my mutants will overrun
dialog: the globe. The Earth will become
dialog: a brave new world of only plants.
dialog: And we shall rule them. For we
dialog: will be the only two people left
dialog: in the world.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Adam and Evil.
text: Freeze lifts the Gotham bauble, holds it on his palm, his
text: gauntlet glowing blue, tiny Gotham freezing. He CRUSHES the
dialog: city.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: You will distract the bat and bird
dialog: while I prepare to freeze Gotham.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Can't we just ice them along with
dialog: the rest of the citizenry?
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: That is far too merciful. Batman
dialog: will watch his beloved Gotham perish,
dialog: then I will kill him.
speaker_heading: IVY
text: As a team, the duncely duo protect
text: each other. But the Robin is young.
dialog: Impetuous. If I could get him alone-
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: One kiss and you could lift the mask
text: from his lifeless face. Their secret
dialog: identities would be revealed. But
dialog: how best to bait a brid?
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: The way to a boy's heart is through
dialog: his ego. What strapping young hero
dialog: could resist his very own...signal?
speaker_heading: FREEZE
text: Inspired, Ms. Ivy.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I'm hungry. I think I'll have poultry.
scene_heading: 393A	INT. WAYNE MANOR - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY _ EVENING
text: Barbara and Dick stand talking to a DOCTOR.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
text: It's Stage One of McGregor's Syndrome.
dialog: I'm sorry. All we can do is make him
dialog: comfortable.
text: PUSH IN through a partially open door in the b.g...
scene_heading: 394	INT. WAYNE MANOR - ALFRED'S ROOM - EVENING
text: Alfred lays on his bed. Bruce in black tie, kneels beside
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I've spent my whole life trying to
dialog: beat back death. What good are all
dialog: my heroics now if I can't save you?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Everyone dies, Master Bruce. There's
dialog: no defeat in that. Victory comes in
dialog: fighting for what we know is right
dialog: while we still live.
text: 394A	Bruce looks past Alfred. There in the adjacent suite, a
text: young Alfred finishes reading to a young Bruce. Shuts out
dialog: the light.
text: 394B	BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I love you, old man.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Remember this. And remember it
dialog: always. I'm proud of you. And
dialog: I love you too, son.
text: They embrace.
scene_heading: 395	INT. WAYNE MANOR - FOYER
text: (OVER) the doorbell is RINGING. Dick follows Bruce
text: downstairs, the billionaire donning his coat.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: McGregor's Syndrome. That's what
dialog: Freeze's wife had.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yes. But Alfred's condition is less
dialog: severe. Freeze's research says he
dialog: cured a case like Alfred's. It just
dialog: doesn't say how.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I checked the medical database. No
text: one else is even close.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm late for the dedication. Then I
text: go after Freeze and Ivy. Alone.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Like hell you do.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Dick, don't push me right now.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Or what? No one can capture Ivy but
dialog: the big bad Bat. Crap! You just want
dialog: her for yourself. Don't you? Answer
dialog: me, damn it!
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yes! Yes, I want her so badly I can
dialog: taste it. That's the whole point.
text: Look at us. Orphans. Isolated.
dialog: Obsessed to the exclusion of life,
dialog: love, family. We're perfect targets.
dialog: She's done something to us, got us
text: fighting over her somehow.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Hail the all-knowing Bruce Wayne.
dialog: Here's what I know, she loves me,
dialog: Not you and it's driving you crazy.
dialog: It's why you stopped us from kissing.
dialog: Because if you can't have her,
dialog: nobody can.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: She's clouded your mind. You're not
dialog: thinking straight.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Oh but I am. For the first time in
dialog: a long time. I'm through living in your
dialog: shadow. All that ends right now.
text: 395A	Dick walks away. Bruce stares after him. (OVER) The bell
text: RINGS again. The front door swings open, Julie ENTERS. A
text: limo sits out front.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: I've been ringing forever. Where's
dialog: Alfred?
text: But Bruce doesn't answer.
scene_heading: 395B	INT. WAYNE MANOR - ALFRED'S QUARTERS - NIGHT
text: Barbara stands over the old man.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I'm sorry. I was too late.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Too late for what, dear child?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I came to give you your freedom,
dialog: a chance to live the life you choose.
dialog: The same gift you gave me.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I have been part of the greatest
dialog: adventure ever know. I have found
dialog: purpose here, and the family I
dialog: could never have.
text: Alfred smiles, is hit by a sudden wave of pain.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You must do something for me.
text: Alfred takes her hand, puts an envelope in her grasp.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Find my brother Wilfred. Give him
dialog: This. I have duties he must fulfill
dialog: in my stead. Only family can be
dialog: trusted.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: It is the hearts of two good men
dialog: whom I have had the honor of
dialog: calling son. Take it, child. But
dialog: I implore you, never open it.
dialog: (he touches her cheek)
dialog: You look so like your mother.
text: And with that his eyes close.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Uncle Alfred?
scene_heading: 400	INT. GOTHAM OBSERVATORY - NIGHT
text: A black tie gala celebrating the telescope unveiling.
text: PAMELA ISLEY stands in the center of the room. Alone.
text: Her drab outfit and demeanor make her anything but a
dialog: conversation magnet.
text: Bruce and Julie ENTER, smiling through the storm of
text: FLASHBULBS, and the crowd of PRESS, being greeting
text: guests. Commissioner Gordon steps away, reaches for
text: champagne off a try.
speaker_heading: VOICE (OVER)
dialog: I've always wondered, where does
dialog: that big old bat light come from?
text: Pamela stands before Gordon. She flips open a compact,
text: blows a pile of love dust, the tiny swirl catching the cop
text: in the face, a bit more hitting Bruce who stands behind
dialog: the Commissioner.
text: GORDON - CLOSE. Stunned. And suddenly in love.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (stammering)
text: It's on top of police headquarters.
text: Pam takes Gordon's arm, leads him like a puppy into an alcove.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: I'd just love to see it. But you
dialog: probably don't have access.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Why, I'm Commissioner of Police.
dialog: (patting his pocket)
dialog: I have the keys right here.
text: 401	BRUCE, still standing with Julie, amidst the PRESS and
text: WELL-WISHERS, seems suddenly distracted, begins looking
text: around the room.
text: As if summoned by an inaudible call, Bruce peels away from
text: a perplexed Julie, begins searching the crowd. A man on a
dialog: quest.
text: PAM has Gordon against the alcove wall. Her fingers slip
text: into his pocket.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: On second thought, you're way too
dialog: old for me.
text: She pushes a stunned Gordon away, spins, heads towards the
text: door, tossing something in her hand. Gordon's keys.
text: 402	A HAND grabs her. Pam spins to face Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Dr. Isley. it was like I could feel
dialog: you in the room. You're...enchanting.
text: Gorgeous. The most beautiful woman
dialog: I've ever seen. If you're..um...
dialog: free...this evening.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: (arriving)
dialog: Bruce? What are you doing?
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: I think he's asking me on a date, in
text: an awkward, stammering sort of way.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: I've heard of commitment anxiety,
dialog: but this is insane. You're not
dialog: really propositioning another
text: woman right in front of me.
dialog: Are you?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Well, define 'propositioning'.
text: The PRESS has noticed the conflict, now surround Bruce,
dialog: Julie and Pam.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Make a choice, Bruce. Her or me.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Well...um...her.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: (crestfallen)
dialog: You were right. I get it. You're not
dialog: the marrying kind. You've made your
dialog: point. Goodbye Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Physical perfection, charm and
text: wealth tossed over for a dowdy spinster.
dialog: How do you explain your behavior?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: I can't. But perhaps tonight, over
dialog: dinner...I've just had an opening.
speaker_heading: PAMELA
dialog: Maybe your witless playboy persona
dialog: works on every bimbo du jour but I
dialog: am not the least bit titillated by
dialog: your attentions. So back off or I'll
dialog: have you in court quicker than you
dialog: can spell sexual harassment. Got me?
speaker_heading: 402A	WIDER
text: Folks are staring. MURMUR to each other. Bruce is
text: chagrined.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Does that mean dinner's a no?
text: Pam has already pushed past him, out the door.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's just I sort of...kind of
dialog: ...love you.
scene_heading: 403	INT. BLOSSOMS TREET TURKISH BATHS - FREEZE'S CHAMBER
text: Freeze stands, putting on his suit.
text: He SNAPS his fingers. A legion of Icemen step out of the
text: swirling mists. Freeze lifts his freezing engine.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Bundle up boys. There's a storm
dialog: coming.
text: Freeze and his battalion head into the night.
scene_heading: 404	EXT. POLICE HQ - ROOF - NIGHT
text: A giant door swings open. Bane and Ivy emerge onto the
dialog: roof.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Let there be light.
text: Bane walks to he dormant Batsignal, TEARS it from its
text: shackles.
scene_heading: 404A	INT. WAYNE MANOR - BARBARA'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: Barbara ENTERS, lost in grief. She sits, turns Alfred's
text: envelope over in her hand. A long beat. She withdraws a
dialog: single, silver CD.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Only family can be trusted?
text: Barbara slides the disk into her computer.
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
dialog: Access denied. Protected files.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Perhaps you didnt give me your
dialog: genes. But you gave me your heart.
text: Barbara begins hacking the disk, trying to break the code.
scene_heading: 406A	INT.-WAYNE MANOR-HALLWAY-NIGHT
text: Bruce, still in his tux, ENTERS, sits at the main batcomputer
text: console, distraught, starting in to the darkness of the cave.
text: 407A	A YOUNGER ALFRED stands with an ADOLESCENT BRUCE, working
text: together over the original Batsuit prototype.
text: 407B	BRUCE - CLOSE. As the images dissipate to memory.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred, old friend, I could use
dialog: your help right now.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (OVER)
dialog: Right here, sir.
text: 408	Bruce spins, stunned. A monitor flickers into life.
text: The words COMPUTER SIMULATION flash under an image of
dialog: Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I anticipated a moment might arrive
dialog: where I became...incapacitated. As
dialog: such, I programmed my brain algorithms
text: into the batcomputer and created a
dialog: virtual simulation.
text: Bruce stares a beat. Then he smiles.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's good to see you.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What seems to be the problem?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Women.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: That, sir, does not compute.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: First Ivy had an intoxicating effect
dialog: on both Dick and me. Tonight my
text: feelings spread to someone else.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Specify, please.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Pamela Isley. I was so attracted to
dialog: her I couldn't reason clearly. I
dialog: still can't. She used to work for
dialog: Wayne Enterprises. Find a file.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Coming on line now, sir.
text: A spinning Isley appears on the monitor.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What was her area of research?
text: Study and report titles scroll up the side of the image.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Advanced botany. DNA splicing.
text: Recombinant animal plant patterns.
dialog: Pheromone extractions.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Pheromones?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Glandular secretions from animals.
dialog: Scents that create powerful
dialog: emotions. Fear. Rage...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Passion. Of course. Find the photo
text: of Ivy after the flower ball.
text: A spinning Ivy appears beside the spinning Isley.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Deconstruct and resolve.
text: Schematics of various features, finger and retina prints,
text: height, weight, are highlighted and compared. All match.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Amazing what a good wig and contact
dialog: lenses can do. And I thought Clark
dialog: Kent got away with murder just
dialog: wearing those glasses.
text: Suddenly ALERT panels start flashing. ALARMS SOUND.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: It appears, sir, that someone has
text: stolen the batsignal.
scene_heading: 408A	INT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT
text: Barbara is still hacking away at the disk.
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
dialog: Access code accepted.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: This better be one hell of a
dialog: secret.
text: She hits a key. a Pictures begin to reflect in the dark of
dialog: her eye.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh my God.
scene_heading: 409	EXT. GOTHAM STREET
text: Freeze's trucks SCREECH to a stop, Freeze and Bane at the
dialog: helm.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: No matter what they tell you, it's
dialog: the size of your gun that counts.
speaker_heading: 410	PAN UP
text: The giant TELESCOPE of the Gotham Observatory aims into
dialog: the night.
text: 411	CAMERA CONTINUES UP to the heavens as the BATSIGNAL
text: appears in the sky. Then something amazing happens. The
text: familiar beacon turns blood red, the shape within changing
text: from a bat to bird. THE ROBIN SINGAL shines over Gotham.
scene_heading: 412	INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT
text: THE ROBIN SIGNAL glows on the central monitor.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Bruce stands in civvies talking to Dick who is suiting up.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: That's no batlight, it's a birdcall.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Her name is Pamela Isley. I saw
dialog: her talking to Gordon. She must
dialog: have stolen his keys, altered
dialog: the signal-
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: And she did it all for me. For love.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: She's infected us with some kind of
dialog: pheromone extract-
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Is that it, Bruce? I'm under some
dialog: magic spell?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: She wants to kill you.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You'd say anything to keep me away
dialog: from her. To keep her for yourself.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You once said to me that being
dialog: part of a team means trusting
dialog: your partner. That sometimes
dialog: counting on someone else is the
dialog: only way to win. DO you remember?
text: Dick doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You weren't just talking about being
dialog: partners. You were talking about
dialog: being a family. Well, part of our
dialog: family is dying. I'm not going to
dialog: lose everyone I've ever loved. So I'm
dialog: asking you now, friend, partner,
dialog: brother - will you trust me?
scene_heading: 416	INT. OBSERVATORY - TOWER PLATFORM
text: The Scientist and his Associate stand amidst the debris
text: from the party, testing the telescope. (OVER) A TREMENDOUS
text: SMASHING.
text: ON THE FLOOR BELOW Freeze and Bane Enter.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Hi. Sorry about the door. Is the
dialog: party over?
text: BANE begins pulling charges from his satchel and setting
text: them around the room.
speaker_heading: SCIENTIST
dialog: Who the hell is this nutball?
text: 417	Freeze points up, FIRES a cryonic BLAST at him, turning
dialog: him to ice.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: That's Mr. Nutball to you. Half a
text: set of bookends.
dialog: (to the Associate)
dialog: You. Go like this.
text: Freeze pantomimes the Scientist's frozen expression of
text: terror for the Associate. The Associate, terrified,
text: imitates Freeze's move.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: No. move your hands up. Higher.
text: Now a hint more fear. Excellent.
text: 418	Freeze fires another BLAST, freezing the Associate in
dialog: the same position as the Scientist.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: A matched pair. Sometimes I exceed
dialog: even my wildest expectations.
text: Freeze smiles at the mighty telescope.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: If revenge is a dish best served
dialog: cold, then put on your Sunday
dialog: finest. It's time to feast.
scene_heading: 419	INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT
text: Dark. Dormant. The automatic activation sequence engages.
text: Ambient lights come on. Computers flicker into life.
text: The giant Batmobile pedestal begins to rise. On it, no
text: car but a single figure standing now in the center of the
dialog: cave. Barbara.
text: 419A	BARBARA - CLOSE.	Eyes wide with awe.
text: Barbara walks to the main terminal of the Batcomputer.
text: Touches the console. The Alfred simulation appears on
dialog: screen.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Uncle Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: In spirit only, I'm afraid.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: The boys need help.
text: 420	The image of Alfred stares at her a beat. Then smiles.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Your mother would be proud.
scene_heading: 421	MAIN SCREEN - CLOSE. Flickers into life. Costume
text: schematics turn.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Forgive my being personal, dear
dialog: girl, but I must know your size.
scene_heading: 421A	EXT. BLOSSOM STREET TURKISH BATHS
text: Robin arrives the entrance to the dark baths, lush,
text: inviting, mysterious. He passes the giant bird signal
text: chained to the door, the spotlight shutting out as he
text: disappears inside.
scene_heading: 422	INT. BLOSSOM STREET TURKISH BATHS
text: Giant floral fans spin. Leaf curtains undulate. Fruits
text: burst with color. In the center of the cave, a giant bed
text: of buds. Ivy touches the buds. All instantly blossom.
speaker_heading: ROBIN (OVER)
dialog: Is your thumb the only part of
dialog: you that's green?
text: Ivy looks up. A figure stands in the darkness. She smiles.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: You'll just have to find out.
text: Ivy extends her hand. Robin steps out of the shadows.
scene_heading: 423	INT. GOTHAM OBSERVATORY - TOWER PLATFORM - NIGHT
text: Freeze attaches the icing engine to the telescope. Bane
text: finishes laying his explosive charges, joins Freeze.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Big family? Like pets? Don't talk
dialog: much, do you?
text: 424	Freeze engages the engine. Suddenly the entire pedestal
text: is washed in a blue wave of freezing cryonic energy.
scene_heading: 425	EXT. OBSERVATORY - NIGHT
text: The ambient ice wave spreads down, encasing the old
text: structure. The nearby banks whiten, turning into snow
text: cliffs, the river freezing into an icy channel. The
text: Observatory has transformed into a fortress of ice.
scene_heading: 426	INT. BATCAVE
text: A SERIES OF SHOTS. Boots are pulled on. A slim utility
text: belt LOCKS. A cape WHIPS over a lithe female back.
scene_heading: 427	INT. BLOSSOM STREET TURKISH BATHS
text: Ivy sits on the bed, draws Robin down beside her, faces
dialog: close.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: I'm glad you came. I can't breathe
dialog: without you.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: I want us to be together. But I
dialog: need to know you're serious about
dialog: turning over a new leaf. I need a
dialog: sign.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: How about dangerous curves?
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Of trust. Tell me your plan.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Kiss me and I'll tell you.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Tell me and I'll kiss you.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Freeze has turned the new telescope
text: into a freezing gun. He's about to
text: turn Gotham into an ice cube.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: (recoiling)
dialog: I've got to stop him.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: (pulling him back in)
dialog: One kiss, my love. For luck.
text: Robin can't resist. They kiss. Ivy pulls back, holds his
dialog: gaze.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Bad luck, I'm afraid. It's time to
dialog: die, little bird.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: You should have heeded your pointy-
dialog: eared pal. These lips can be murder.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Then you never loved me?
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Love you? I loathe your bipedal
dialog: arrogance, your animal superiority.
dialog: My only joy is knowing that even now
dialog: my poison kiss is sucking the life
dialog: from your ape-like face.
speaker_heading: VOICE(OVER)
dialog: I'm not saying I told you so.
text: 428	Ivy spins. From the shadows, a figure emerges. Batman.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: You're too late. Say bye-bye birdie.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Sorry to disappoint you. But rubber
dialog: lips are immune to your charms.
text: Robin peels a rubber coating from his mouth. Ivy stares
dialog: in dismay.
speaker_heading: 428A				BATMAN
dialog: Robin and I found the cure to your
dialog: evil spell. And that's teamwork.
text: 428B	Then she SCREAMS her rage. She shoves Robin into the
text: lily pool, the Boy Wonder immediately tangled into predatory
dialog: vines.
text: 428C	MORE VINES wrench Batman hanging upside down to the
text: ceiling, the stalks squeezing our heroes.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Sorry, boys, my vines have a little
dialog: crush on you.
text: Ivy begins leaping across lily pads towards the exit.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Gotta run. So many people to kill.
dialog: So little time.
text: 431	THE SKYLIGHT - EXPLODES. The room fills with moonlight.
text: 432	A figure comes flipping down from above. Long cape. Tall
text: ears. Black leather. BATGIRL.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: You're about to become compost.
text: 433	Ivy and Batgirl begin a furious martial arts battle.
scene_heading: (CHOREOGRAPHY TO COME).
text: BATMAN pulls a bat-knife, begins cutting himself free.
text: ROBIN struggles to untangle himself from the aquatic vines.
text: BATGIRL is fighting Ivy, feet flying, hands moving like
dialog: lighting.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: Using feminine wiles to get what
dialog: you want. Trading on your looks.
text: Exploiting men's weakness for sex.
dialog: Read a book, sister. That passive-
dialog: aggressive crap went out in the
dialog: seventies. Chicks like you give
dialog: women a bad name.
text: BATMAN deftly slashes through his captor vines.
text: ROBIN struggles, trying to free himself
text: IVY gets the upper hand, backs Batgirl against the wall.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: As I told Lady Freeze when I pulled
dialog: her plug, this is a one woman show.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: I don't think so.
text: 438	Batgirl grabs Ivy's hair, knocking her out with a knee
text: to the forehead, then batcuffs her.
text: BATMAN cuts himself freed, drops to the floor to face Batgirl.
text: ROBIN pulls himself, dripping, from the pool.
speaker_heading: 438A				BATMAN
dialog: And you are?
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: Batgirl.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: That's not awfully PC. How about
dialog: Batwoman? Batperson?
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: It's me. Barbara. I found the cave.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: We gotta get those locks changed.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: She knows who we are.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: I guess we'll just have to kill her.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Kill her later. We've got work to do.
text: 439	The three heroes race into the night.
scene_heading: 440	INT. GOTHAM OBSERVATORY - TELESCOPE PLATFORM - NIGHT
text: Freeze stands on the platform, giant telescope in his
text: hands. (OVER) approaching SIRES.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: 1-Adam 12, 1-Adam-12, see the mad
text: scientist with the freezing ray.
text: 441	A SQUAD OF CRUISERS SCREAM up the avenue towards the
text: observatory, their bubble lights flashing.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Cops on the rocks, anyone?
text: 444	He FIRES a giant blue beam of cryonic energy at the
text: street below.
text: 445	THE COP CARS become skidding, SCREECHING cubes of ice,
text: They SHASH into each other, EXPLODE into a pyre of raging
text: flames.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Police are so hot tempered these
dialog: days. Don't you agree, Mr. Bane?
scene_heading: 449	EXT. FROZEN RIVER BANKS
text: A sleek one man ice sail (THE BATSLED) blows out onto
text: the frozen water. Robin is at the helm.
text: 450	A modified white Batmobile on rocket skis (THE
text: BATHAMMER), BLASTS onto the ice, falling in alongside
text: the Batsled. Batman drives.
text: A single-bladed, rocket snowcylce (THE BATBLADE), whips
text: onto the ice, falling into the attack line. Batgirl helms
dialog: the craft.
text: The bat-force BLASTS upriver towards the icy Observatory.
scene_heading: 452	INT. GOTHAM OBSERVATORY - ELESCOPE PLATFORM - NIGHT
scene_heading: TELESCOPE VIEWFINDER - CLOSE. The Batvehicles are visible
text: through the lens.
speaker_heading: 453				FREEZE
dialog: Ivy failed to unmask the Dynamic
dialog: Duo. No matter, the Bat and Bird are
dialog: mine at last. Watch, Batman, as your
dialog: beloved Gotham freezes. And prepare
dialog: to die. Because you're next.
text: Freeze points the telescope downtown. He FIRES
scene_heading: 454	EXT. GOTHAM STREET - NIGHT
text: Folks walking their dogs, drinking on stoops, kissing
text: against alley walls, mailboxes, lampposts, the pavement
text: itself, are all suddenly encased in glistening ice.
scene_heading: 455	EXT. OBSERVATORY RIVER BANKS - NIGHT
speaker_heading: FREEZE (OVER)
text: The Bat-allion approaches. Icemen.
dialog: Attack.
text: FREEZE'S TRUCK bursts through the mists, BLASTING down the
text: frozen river on blades, two pairs of icemen hanging from
text: tail lines on skis, machine guns BLAZING.
scene_heading: 456	INT. BATHAMMER - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Attack plan alpha.
text: Batman peels left.
scene_heading: 457	EXT. BATSLED - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Alpha. Roger.
text: Robin peels right.
scene_heading: 458	EXT. BATBLADE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: Alpha. Got it.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: What the hell is attack plan Alpha?
scene_heading: 459	EXT. BATSLED - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Divide and conquer.
text: Robin is flying downriver. One pair of icemen sweep out
text: alongside the truck, heading towards Robin's billowing
text: craft, guns FIRING.
scene_heading: 460	EXT. BATBLADE - NIGHT
text: A second pair of skiing icemen whip towards Batgirl, their
text: guns SPITTING rounds of shells into the ice around her.
scene_heading: 460A	EXT. FREEZE'S TRUCK
text: Side mounted rocket launchers FIRE towards the Bathammer,
text: BLOWING holes in the ice.
scene_heading: 461	EXT. BATHAMMER
text: Batman maneuvers, managing to swerve around the sudden,
text: steaming pools. He GUNS the TURBOS, heading straight
dialog: for the truck.
scene_heading: 462	EXT. BATSLED
text: The two icemen bearing down on Robin release their
text: tethers, converging on the Batsled, guns FIRING madly.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Tack.
text: Robin pulls the boom and the sail LUFFS. His boat suddenly
text: changes course and the two skiers COLLIDE, flying onto the
dialog: ice.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Boy, I hope Freeze hires these guys
dialog: by the dozen.
scene_heading: 471	EXT. BATBLADE
text: The skiers are closing fast. Batgirl hits a key and a
text: status panel displays a menu of the Batblade's special
dialog: modifications.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: Nice extras package.
text: 472	PANEL - CLOSE. Barbara selects a setting called Ice
dialog: Cutter.
text: 473	THE BATBLADE scythe peels back, revealing a sharper blade.
text: 474	BATGIRL uses her deft driving skills to spin and side-
text: skid, her blade sending a wave of frozen ice into the
text: faces of the icemen, the villains tumbling in backwards
text: somersaults across the ice.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: That's what I call a close shave.
scene_heading: 478	EXT. BATHAMMER
text: Batman is shooting the center of the frozen river, heading
text: straight for the ice truck, its side guns BLAZING.
scene_heading: 480	INT. BATHAMMER
text: Batman hits a control stud.
scene_heading: 482A	EXT. BATHAMMER
text: Two torpedoes shoot out of the Bathammer chassis, hitting
text: the frozen river directly in front of Freeze's truck, ice
text: flying skyward in a tremendous EXPLOSION.
scene_heading: 482B	EXT. FREEZE TRUCK
text: The driver can't swerve in time, the hole in the ice dead
dialog: ahead.
scene_heading: 482C	EXT. FREEZE TRUCK
text: The truck hits the steaming pool, flipping up, nose
text: first, and begins to sink into the icy waters.
scene_heading: 482D	INT. BATHAMMER
text: Batman races past the sinking truck, Icemen crawling to
dialog: safety.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Don't sink and drive.
scene_heading: 482E	EXT. FROZEN RIVER
text: Under the pulse of Freeze's BEAMS hitting the city, the
text: Batvehciles fire TURBOS, closing in on the Observatory.
scene_heading: 483	INT. GOTHAM OBSERVATORY - TELESCOPE PLATFORM - NIGHT
text: Freeze tilts his gun down towards the frozen river below.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Not so fast. Time you cooled your heals.
dialog: Freeze FIRES.
scene_heading: 484	EXT. FROZEN RIVER - NIGHT
text: The frozen channel ahead of the bat-force is hit by the
text: FREEZING RAY. A giant wall of rock-hard ice forms, block-
dialog: ing the river.
scene_heading: 485	INT. BATHAMMER - NIGHT
text: Batman hits a console stud marked:	EMERGENCY BURN.
scene_heading: 488A	EXT. FROZEN RIVER
text: The Bathammer engines ROAR, the Bathammer BLOWING straight
text: through the frozen wall in an EXPLOSION of ice.
text: 488B	THE BADTBLADE and the BATSLED shoots up the face of the ice
text: wall on either side of the Bathammer, soaring over the
text: top of the mountain of snow.
scene_heading: 488C	EXT. BATSLED - FLYING
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Youwsa! Nothing but air.
scene_heading: 488D	EXT. BATBLADE - FLYING
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: (to the old 60's Batman theme)
text: Batgirl, Baatgirl, Baatgirl.
scene_heading: 488E	EXT. FROZEN RIVER
text: The Batsled and the Batblade hit the ice running, WHIPPING
text: in alongside the speeding Bathammer.
text: The Batvehicles BLAST towards the Observatory.
scene_heading: 489	INT. OBSERVATORY - TELESCOPE PLATFORM - NIGHT
text: Freeze stares at a monitor. The bat-team is now below the
text: observatory, at the base of the giant ice cliffs.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Mr. Bane, I'll finish off the city.
dialog: You, as they say in showbiz, are
dialog: on. Take the boys and kill the kids.
dialog: But bring me the Bat.
scene_heading: 490	A GIANT CLOCK TOWER - CLOSE. 11:49
speaker_heading: BATMAN (OVER)
dialog: We have eleven minutes to stop Freeze
dialog: And thaw the city.
speaker_heading: PAN DOWN
scene_heading: 491	EXT. ICE CLIFFS - NIGHT
text: 492	Three tiny figures scale the ice using pitons and ropes.
text: PUSH IN.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: This is easy.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Crimefighter's rule number one:
dialog: never say that.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: Why?
text: 493	THE LEDGE ABOVE THEM. Suddenly a score of ice-climbing
text: thugs pour over the edge on ropes, sliding down, FIRING
text: their guns madly.
speaker_heading: 494				ROBIN
dialog: That's why.
text: 495	A SHOOTER comes flying down a rope straight towards them,
text: 496	guns BLAZING. Robin swings wide on his rope, grabbing
text: Batgirl, pulling her out of the line of fire. They hit a
text: snow bank and roll.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: Does this mean we're going steady?
text: 497	Four figures land on the snow beside them. Icemen, guns
dialog: drawn.
scene_heading: 498	EXT. ICE CLIFFS - NIGHT
text: Batman uses batpitons to pull himself up onto a ledge just
text: below the Observatory. That's when another wave of Icemen
text: descend on him from the mists.
text: Batman reaches for a batarang. A beat. Then he smiles.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Let's do this the old-fashioned way.
text: Batman leaves his batarang belted, begins wailing on the
text: Icemen using only his hands and feet, flying back fists,
text: and spinning roundhouse kicks felling the thugs one
dialog: after another.
scene_heading: 505	EXT. ICE CLIFFS - NIGHT
text: Robin and Batgirl move back to back, surrounded now by a band
text: of Icemen. Robin notices a heavily cantilevered overhang of
dialog: snow.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Crimefighter's rule number two.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: I'm afraid to ask.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Be ready for anything.
text: 506	Robin puts his hands together and YELLS. The ECHO shoots
text: up the hill. A tremendous RUMBLING comes back down, the
text: overhang of snow dumping on several Icemen.
text: 508	Robin does a standing backflip into the Thugs behind him.
text: 509	Batgirl goes down, taking out several more with a deft leg
dialog: sweep.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: (kicks a thug)
dialog: Pow!
dialog: (punches another)
dialog: What!
dialog: (backhands a third)
dialog: Kazow!
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: (fighting)
dialog: What exactly are you doing?
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: I don't know. It just feels right.
text: 510	Batgirl and Robin begin fighting their way through the
text: Icemen up towards the Observatory.
scene_heading: 511	INT. OBSERVATORY - NIGHT
text: Batman pulls himself up onto the aperture ledge as Robin
text: and Batgirl climbs in from the other side. The giant
text: chamber is empty, the telescope still aimed at Gotham.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: No sign of the snowman.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Maybe he melted.
text: 512	Batman SHOOTS a batgrapple into the ceiling, swings
text: across the room, dropping two bat-charges at the feet of
text: the frozen Scientists, continues his swing landing on the
dialog: telescope platform.
text: BATGIRL AND ROBIN swing onto the Telescope platform to
dialog: join Batman.
text: 513	THE BAT CHARGES begin to glow, their radiating heat
text: starting to melt the Scientists.
speaker_heading: 513A				BATGIRL
dialog: I hope you've got about ten million
dialog: more of those little toys.
text: 514	Batgirl points at the control console clock. 11:52
speaker_heading: 515				ROBIN
text: Eight more minutes and a city full
text: of Gothamites are ice cubes forever.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Sunlight could reverse the freezing
dialog: process.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
text: Sunrise isn't for five hours.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Here.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: But it's morning in the Congo.
text: 516	Batman points to a screen showing a graphic represent-
text: tation of the satellites in orbit.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: If we could relay the sunlight-
speaker_heading: ROBIN
text: From the other side of the equator-
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: It'll take the satellites about a
dialog: minute to re-align, but...damn!
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Damn? Damn is not good.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
text: Those targeting mirrors are frozen.
text: The sun beam won't work.
text: 517	PULL BACK TO REVEAL TWO SMALL MIRRORS sitting on the
text: telescope barrel. Both are encased in ice.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'll set the telescope. You two
dialog: thaw the mirrors.
text: 518	Batgirl and Robin race out onto the telescope, each
text: pulling a laser from their utility belts.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: I love this belt. Can I get a
dialog: matching handbag?
text: 519	Their LASERS FLARE. Batgirl and Robin begin thawing the
dialog: mirrors.
text: 520	BATMAN goes to the main console, begins working the
dialog: keyboard.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Who ever thought Aunt Harriet's
dialog: typing lessons would lead to this?
scene_heading: 521	EXT. EARTH - VIEW FROM SPACE
text: Satellite thrusters FIRE. The giant orbital mirrors
text: begin to turn.
scene_heading: 522	INT. OBSERVATORY
text: MONITOR - CLOSE. Graphic satellites begin to adjust.
text: TARGETING flashes over a blinking graphic of Gotham
text: A digital clock reads: 11:54.
text: 523	BATMAN - POV. As he aims the telescope. The skyline
text: 524	through the crosshairs is suddenly obscured by a blur as
text: Freeze drops from the rafters onto the telescope, his face
text: now visible in the targeting scope.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Tonight's forecast...
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: ...a freeze is coming!
text: 526	Freeze grabs Batman and hurls the caped crusader up over
text: his head onto the telescope barrel, using his free hand to
text: yank the telescope control joystick. The telescope tilts
text: sharply downward.
text: 527	BATGIRL AND ROBIN tumble down the telescope barrel,
text: rolling towards the lens and the drop TO the city below.
text: 528	BATMAN tumbles, rights himself, spins.
text: 529	BATMAN - POV. Freeze is climbing towards the control
text: 530	console. Batgirl and Robin are rolling towards the end
dialog: of the telescope.
text: 531	No way to get both. A beat. Batman rushes towards
dialog: Freeze.
scene_heading: 532	EXT. OBSERVATORY
text: Batgirl and then Robin tumble off the end of the
text: 533	telescope, dropping towards the city below.
scene_heading: 534	INT. OBSERVATORY - TELESCOPE PLATFORM
text: Freeze has reached the main telescope control. He hits
text: a switch.
text: 535	MONITOR - CLOSE. Graphic satellites blink red under the
text: flashing message: TARGET LOCK DISABLED. Clock reads: 11:56
scene_heading: 535A	EXT. SPACE
text: THRUSTERS quit as the satellites stop turning.
scene_heading: 535B	INT. OBSERVATORY - TELESCOPE
text: Batman is struggling up the slope of the telescope towards
dialog: Freeze.
text: 535C	Freeze pulls the control level. The telescope begins
text: to tilt and spin madly, the ambient condensation creating
text: an indoor snowstorm.
text: Batman goes down, hanging from the telescope frame.
scene_heading: 542	EXT. OBSERVATORY
text: BATGIRL is plummeting towards the city below. Robin is
text: 543	falling a couple of feet above her. He FIRES a bat tether
text: over his head.
text: 544	ROBIN'S GRAPPLE secures in a glacier-like overhang.
text: 545	ROBIN reaches down for Batgirl as Batgirl reaches up
text: towards him.
scene_heading: 547	INT. OBSERVATORY - TELESCOPE
text: Batman flips himself back up onto the wildly spinning
text: telescope, advancing on Freeze and the control console.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Millions will die so you can save
dialog: on air conditioning. Isn't that
dialog: taking self help a little too far?
text: 548	Freeze draws his pistol.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: We aim to...
dialog: (fires)
dialog: ...Freeze.
text: Batman deflects the blast with his suit armor.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: That's new. Let's swing.
text: 550	Freeze smashes the control joystick to the stop, the
text: telescope's spin accelerating, swinging towards...
text: 551	THE TWO SCIENTISTS have finally melted, stand drenched
text: on the Tower Platform, the massive Telescope now careening
text: towards them.
speaker_heading: SCIENTIST
dialog: This just isn't my day.
text: 551A	THE TELESCOPE SMASHES directly into the TOWER PLATFORM.
text: The platform begins to topple.
speaker_heading: 551B				ASSOCIATE
text: Up, up and away.
text: 551C	As the platform falls CRASHING onto the floor below, the
text: two PhDs leap, landing safely on the swinging telescope,
text: hanging on to the tensioning bar for dear life.
speaker_heading: 551D				SCIENTIST
dialog: PhDs rule!
text: 551E	FREEZE is thrown by the impact of the telescope hitting
text: the tower into the Telescope Platform rail, his gun falling
text: to his feet.
scene_heading: 553	EXT. OBSERVATORY
text: Robin's hand is inches from Batgirl's, the city coming up
dialog: fast.
scene_heading: 554	INT. OBSERVATORY - TELESCOPE CONTROL PLATFORM
text: Freeze is scrambling for his gun. Suddenly a figure looms
text: above him. Batman.
text: 555	Freeze draws. Batman kicks the gun out of his hand. The
text: two begin to fight on the twirling platform. A battle of
dialog: titans.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You've turned Gotham to ice.
dialog: (a right)
dialog: You've endangered countless lives.
dialog: (a left)
dialog: It's payback time.
text: 555A	Batman KNOCKS Freeze with a mighty punch, hurling him
text: onto the back of the telescope. Batman turns towards the
text: console, TYPING commands.
scene_heading: 555B	MONITOR - CLOSE. TARGETING. Graphic satellites flash
text: green. Clock reads: 11:58
text: 555C	THE MIRRORS overhead open, beginning to glow with ambient
dialog: sunlight.
text: 555D	Freeze SCREAMS at the emerging light, leaping onto
text: Batman, sending the caped crusader sprawling onto the
text: barrel of the telescope. He advances on the fallen bat.
text: 555E	Freeze kicks Batman hard in the face, the hero rolling
text: down the telescope towards the opening and Gotham beyond.
scene_heading: 556	EXT. OBSERVATORY
text: Robin grabs Batgirl's hand as Batgirl FIRES a batarang
text: 557	from her wrist. Robin's tether pulls taught, the boy
text: wonder holding Batgirl dangling over the city.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: I've got you.
text: 558	ROBIN'S GRAPPLE rips free from the melting ice.
text: 559	BATGIRL'S GRAPPLE hits the metal roof above. Holds firm.
text: 560	ROBIN'S line tears free, Robin falling as Batgirl's
text: tether pulls tight, Batgirl now holding Robin
text: dangling above Gotham.
speaker_heading: 561				BATGIRL
dialog: No. I've got you.
text: She pulls him eye level. The two hang suspended, face to
dialog: face.
scene_heading: 562	INT. OBSERVATORY
text: Batman is tumbling towards the open slat and Gotham below.
text: 565	He slows his fall, stopping on the barrel.
speaker_heading: VOICE (OVER)
dialog: Wow. Batman.
text: WIDER. The two Scientists are clinging to a targeting groove
text: along the body of the barrel.
speaker_heading: SCIENTIST
dialog: I've seen you on TV.
text: 566	BATMAN - POV. Freeze is heading back to the control
dialog: panel.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Nice to meet you. Can you give me
dialog: any more height on this thing?
text: 567	The Scientist reaches down to a red EMERGENCY lever.
speaker_heading: SCIENTIST
text: Going up.
text: 568	He pulls the lever and the telescope tilts straight up,
text: 569	sending Batman soaring into the air towards the dome
dialog: above.
text: 570	Batman flips in mid air, dives, SMASHING directly into
text: Freeze, the villain CRASHING over the edge of the control
text: platform and into the freezing engine.
text: 571	THE MIRRORS overhead align, the beams of sunlight hitting
text: the freezing engine.
text: Freeze is struck by the rays, the sun penetrating his
dialog: damaged suit.
text: 571A	THE TELESCOPE activates, a powerful THAWING BEAM shooting
text: from it's giant lens.
text: 572	Batman turns to Freeze, the villain beginning to gray and
dialog: wither.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You're loosing your cool
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: I think not. There'll be no hot
dialog: time in this old town tonight.
dialog: (pulls a remote)
dialog: You'll get a charge out of this.
text: 573	He presses a button. As Freeze rolls out of the sunlight,
text: falling towards the floor below, CHARGES around the tele-
text: scope base EXPLODE.
text: 574	The TELESCOPE tilts, dropping out of the open slat
text: towards Gotham, taking a chunk of observatory floor with
dialog: it.
scene_heading: 575	EXT. OBSERVATORY
text: Robin and Batgirl are just pulling themselves onto an ice
text: ledge beneath the dome slat as the giant telescope carrying
text: Batman and the two Scientists plummets over them towards the
dialog: city below.
speaker_heading: 575A				ROBIN
dialog: Now that's what I call an exit.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: (looking past Robin)
dialog: Please tell me he's on our side.
text: A figure steps out from behind the ice. BANE
text: 575B	Robin coils, leaps into a spinning roundhouse, but Bane
text: KNOCKS him away, the boy wonder flying hard into the snow.
text: The monster begins advancing on Batgirl.
scene_heading: 578	EXT. TELESCOPE - FALLING
text: Batman slides down the telescope towards the two Scientists,
text: 579	simultaneously FIRING a double ended bat-tether, two
text: grapples SHOOTING horizontally into the air.
scene_heading: 580	EXT. OBSERVATORY
text: BATGRAPPLES - CLOSE. Sink into the arms of the giant
text: sculpture holding up the Observatory just as the telescope
text: plummets past.
scene_heading: 580A	EXT. OBSERVATORY - ICE LEDGE
text: Robin shakes off the blow, looks up to see Batgirl fending
text: off Bane with a fast series of punches and kicks. She might
text: as well be hitting steel.
speaker_heading: 580B				BATGIRL
dialog: (to Robin)
dialog: Don't worry. I've got him.
text: Just then Bane SLAMS her into an ice wall by the throat, rears
text: back with his fist, about to deliver the killing blow.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: No. I've got him.
text: 580C	Robin leaps, ripping off the tubes leading from Bane's
text: injector pack to his skull, venom spraying wildly into the
dialog: air.
text: 580D	Bane hits the snow, writing, as the venom effect is
text: reversed. His muscles shrink, his form diminishing until
text: he is again a scrawny prisoner, struggling in the folds of
dialog: his costume.
speaker_heading: 580E				ROBIN
dialog: You should get that suit taken in.
dialog: No one's buying baggy anymore.
scene_heading: 581	EXT. TELESCOPE - FALLING
text: The ground is rushing up below them.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Grab my belt and hang on.
text: The Scientists each grab one side of Batman's utility belt.
text: 582	THE CABLE pulls taught, slowing Batman's fall, the
text: telescope dropping from under them as the cable bends like
text: a bow, Batman and the Scientists sinking at its center.
text: 583	The cable reaches its nadir over an outcropping of rock
text: on the cliff. Below the telescope EXPLODES into the frozen
dialog: river.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: This is your stop.
text: 584	Batman pushes the Scientists onto the ledge, the reduced
text: weight SHOOTING the cable taught, ROCKETING Batman up
text: towards the dome like an arrow.
scene_heading: 585	INT. OBSERVATORY
text: Batman flips in through the telescope slat, followed
text: immediately by Batgirl and Robin, all landing together on
text: the observatory floor.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: Winded, old timer?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Don't make me kill you in front
dialog: of the girl.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
text: It's midnight. The telescope's gone.
dialog: There's no way to thaw the city.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Theoretically, the satellites could
dialog: be positioned to thaw the city
dialog: directly. But it would take a
dialog: computer genius.
speaker_heading: ROBIN
dialog: I'm on it.
text: Robin clears the rubble from a fallen console, begins to type.
text: Nothing. The equipment is dead.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: (shouldering him aside)
dialog: No. I'm on it.
text: She quick patches a couple of broken wires, the console
text: lighting up, WHIRRING to life. Begins hacking.
speaker_heading: BATGIRL
dialog: Ms. Genius. Madame Genius. Her
dialog: Geniusness. Which sounds better?
scene_heading: 586	EXT. EARTH - VIEW FROM SPACE
text: The giant orbital satellites finally align. A full disk of
text: the sun appears in the mirror, beamed from one to the next
text: and then the next, the beam cutting downward towards.
scene_heading: 587	EXT. GOTHAM SKYLINE
text: The giant rays of focused sunlight begin warming the city.
scene_heading: 590	EXT. OBSERVATORY - NIGHT
text: Rays of light hit the Observatory, melting the ice covered
dialog: stone.
scene_heading: 591	INT. OBSERVATORY FLOOR
text: Batman walks over to Freeze who lies amidst the rubble, weak
text: and gray with the growing heat, straining to BREATHE.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Go on, kill me too. Just as you
dialog: killed my wife.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I didn't kill your wife.
text: Batman presses a button on his utility belt.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Run Ivy evidence tape 001.40.
text: 592	BATMAN'S GAUNTLET - CLOSE. A tiny monitor shows an image
text: of Poison Ivy.
speaker_heading: IVY (OVER)
dialog: As I told Lady Freeze when I pulled
dialog: her plug, this is a one woman show.
text: FREEZE SCREAMS his rage. His face streams with frozen
text: tears, like tiny diamonds.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: But she's not dead, Victor. We found
text: her, restored her icy slumber.
text: 593	BATMAN'S GAUNTLET MONITOR shows Mrs. Fries restored in
text: cryogenic slumber.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: She's still frozen, Victor, alive,
dialog: waiting for you to find a cure. I
dialog: know what it's like to lose
dialog: everything you've ever loved. But
dialog: vengeance isn't power. Any two-bit
dialog: thug with a gun can take a life. To
dialog: give life, that's true power, a
dialog: power you once had. I don't know
dialog: if you'll ever find a cure for your wife.
dialog: But I'm asking you now, Doctor
text: Victor Fries, to save another life.
dialog: Show me how to cure McGregor's
dialog: Syndrome Stage One. And maybe you
dialog: can also save the man your wife once
dialog: loved. He's still inside you, buried
text: somewhere deep beneath the snow.
dialog: Will you help me? Doctor?
text: Freeze stares at Batman. Finally he unseals his
text: chestplate, removes two glowing power orbs, holds them
text: out, his smile, bittersweet.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Take two of these and call me in
dialog: the morning.
scene_heading: 594	INT. WAYNE MANOR - ALFRED'S QUARTERS - NIGHT
text: Robin and Batgirl watch as Batman attaches the modified
text: power sources from Freeze's suit to Alfred's life-support.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: All we can do now is wait.
dialog: (takes Alfred's hand)
dialog: And hope.
scene_heading: 594A	EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT
text: The prison is secure once again.
scene_heading: 594B	INT. ARKHAM ASYLUM CELL - NIGHT
text: Ivy sits in the barred moonlight, staring out the window,
text: holding a small flower in her hand, pulling the petals
dialog: out one by one.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: He loves me. He loves me not.
dialog: He loves me. he loves me...
speaker_heading: VOICE(OVER)
dialog: Not.
text: A figure stands cloaked in shadows. He steps forward.
dialog: Mr. Freeze.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: (off his suit)
dialog: It's amazing what you can buy around
dialog: here for a few dozen diamonds.
text: Freeze begins coming towards her, menacingly.
speaker_heading: FREEZE
dialog: Prepare for a bitter harvest.
text: Winter has come at last.
speaker_heading: IVY
dialog: Not good.
scene_heading: 595	EXT. WAYNE MANOR - DAWN
text: Morning breaks on the great old building.
scene_heading: 596	A PILE OF PIZZA BOXES - CLOSE
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
scene_heading: 597	INT. WAYNE MANOR - LIVING ROOM - DAWN
text: World War III was lost in this room. Strewn clothes.
text: Barbara dozes on the couch. Dick paces. Bruce stands,
text: staring out the window, afraid he has lost Alfred forever.
scene_heading: (OVER) a THROAT CLEARS. LOUDER.
text: All look up. Alfred is descending the stairs. Scowling.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred, are you...?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Rather disappointed at how poorly
dialog: I taught you proper housekeeping.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: And quite well, it seems. Thanks
dialog: to you, son. Thanks to you all.
text: The three move to him. A family reunion. Dick turns to
dialog: Bruce.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: One question. When Batgirl and I
text: rolled off the telescope, how
dialog: come you didn't try and save us?
dialog: It was the first time I fell and
dialog: you weren't there to catch me.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I knew you could handle it.
text: Barbara CLEARS her throat. Dick shoots her a look.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Sometimes counting on someone else
dialog: is the only way to win.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Hey, I'm the one who kicked Ivy's
dialog: botanical butt. Personally. Me. I did.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You are going back to school.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You're never going to win this
dialog: argument, Bruce.
text: Barbara extends her hand.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Partners?
text: A beat. The other heroes follow suit. A team is born.
speaker_heading: BRUCE & DICK
dialog: Partners.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: We're going to need a bigger cave.
scene_heading: 600	EXT. BATSIGNAL - NIGHT
text: Three costumed avengers race into the night.
text: FINAL FADE TO BLACK
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
