dialog: 
dialog: B A T M A N F O R E V E R
dialog: 
dialog: Written by
speaker_heading: AKIVA GOLDSMAN
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRODUCTION DRAFT
scene_heading: ----------------
dialog: June 24, 1994
scene_heading: 1 EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT 1
text: A castle of shadow. (OVER) RAIN, HOWLING evil wind.
text: Sudden lightning CRACKS, illuminates the aged structure,
text: the hanging metal sign.
scene_heading: 2 INT. ASYLUM CORRIDORS - NIGHT 2
text: DR. BURTON, the Chief Psychiatrist moves down the old
text: hallway, face tense. He steps through a doorway into...
scene_heading: 3 INT. MAXIMUM SECURITY - NIGHT 3
text: Security cells. Criminal maniacs sealed behind protective
text: casings.
text: A GUARD stands before a heavy door.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Hell of a night, huh Doc?
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Hell's in here.
text: Hydraulics HISS. The cell door unseals.
scene_heading: 4 INT. SECURE ISOLATION CELL 4
text: Small. Walls, ceiling, floor, padded. A single window
text: casts the room in pallid moonlight.
text: A figure sits in shadow, bound by the wraps and ties of a
text: straight jacket, gaze fixed out the window.
text: Lightning flashes, brightening the room. THUNDER CRACKS.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Mr. Dent...
text: No answer. Burton steps closer.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Counselor...
text: Still nothing. Another step.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Harvey....
text: Burton reaches towards the figure.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Harvey are you alright...
text: Burton touches his shoulder. Lightning flashes as...
text: THE BODY WHIPS around. An orderly, gagged, sits bound to
text: the chair with bedsheets.
text: The sheets around the chair have been rigged. Now they
text: yank him up so he spins frantically from the ceiling fan.
text: Lightning flashes again, illuminating a madman's scrawled
text: writing on the wall.
scene_heading: WRITING - CLOSE. "The Bat Must Die!" THUNDER
scene_heading: 5 EXT. GOTHAM CITY SKYLINE - SUNSET - FALL 5
text: Gothic towers of granite and glass shimmer golden in the
dialog: late day sun.
text: 6 MOVE IN towards the city as an executive helicopter 6
text: CROSSES FRAME. Through the window BRUCE WAYNE, still
text: handsome but a few lines starting to show, sits watching
text: a seatback video screen.
text: 7 CONTINUE In over Gotham Harbor towards the skyline as 7
scene_heading: (OVER) A NEWSCASTER talks.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER
dialog: ...And in Gotham City, ex-District
dialog: Attorney Harvey Dent escaped from
dialog: Arkham Asylum for the Criminally
dialog: Insane.
text: 8 CLOSER on a single building, its power generated by a 8
text: small but mighty dam below. A glowing sign reads Wayne
dialog: Enterprises.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER (OVER)
dialog: Dent, once Gotham's leading
dialog: contender for Mayor, was horribly
dialog: scarred during an indictment hearing
dialog: over a year ago.
text: HOLD on a single window. MOVE IN
scene_heading: 9 INT. BRUCE WAYNE'S OFFICE 9
text: Elegant. Oak. A wall monitor runs the same newscast.
scene_heading: 10 INSERT SCREEN 10
text: Dent questions a crime boss on the stand. A thug throws a
text: vial of acid toward Harvey, searing half his face.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER (OVER)
dialog: Dent, whose left-brain was damaged
dialog: during the assault, launched a
dialog: grizzly crime spree before being
text: captured by The Batman. He is
dialog: extremely dangerous. Repeat....
speaker_heading: 11 WIDER 11
text: Bruce Wayne ENTERS, his Armani suit the only thing fresh
text: about him, followed by a sudden stream of EXECUTIVES,
scene_heading: SECRETARIES, ASSISTANTS and GOTHAM SOCIETY MATRONS.
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
text: The solar generator tests are back.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Uh... great, could you wait a
dialog: second...
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: The Mayor's office called again -
speaker_heading: SOCIETY MATRON
dialog: Who are you asking to the circus -
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Five minutes to your inspection -
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Stop!
text: Everybody freezes.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Okay, I want you all to just stand
dialog: here for fifteen seconds, okay?
dialog: Fifteen, everybody got it?
dialog: Folks nod.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Good. Nobody move, now.
text: And with that, Bruce turns and walks out.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: I gotta give myself a raise...
scene_heading: 12 INT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES - ELECTRONICS DIVISION - TWILIGHT 12
text: Endless work-spaces stretching into infinity.
text: Bruce, a Junior Exec ENTOURAGE trailing, tours an
text: assembly line where robotic arms weld laser tools.
text: FRED STICKLEY, a fuss-budget plant manager, leads.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Your weekly inspections are a
dialog: departmental highlight.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Really?
dialog: (a warm smile)
dialog: You all need to get out more.
text: 13 CRANE UP high over the factory floor, across acres of 13
text: assembly lines and work stations.
speaker_heading: ANGLE DOWN on
scene_heading: 14 INT. EDWARD NYGMA'S WORK STATION (CONTINUOUS) 14
text: A clutter of computer parts. Paperwork everywhere.
text: Rubik's cubes, games, dozens of puzzle books all boasting
text: the green suited caricature of "The Guesser".
scene_heading: 15 MONITOR-CLOSE. A crossword puzzle.
text: Features reflect over the acrostic. The two images
text: resolve into one; the face itself is a puzzle.
scene_heading: 16 REVERSE ANGLE 16
text: EDWARD NYGMA, awkward, brilliant and feverishly anxious
text: stares up at the screen, TALKING to himself.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: We'll probably go to the house for
dialog: dinner. Yes. Yes. Maybe he'll throw
dialog: a little party in my honor.
text: Suddenly Edward BANGS his head against the desk-top.
text: Hard. A brief window on the inner Edward, all insecurity
text: and self loathing.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Idiot! Should have rented a tuxedo.
dialog: (suddenly calm)
dialog: Relax. I'm sure Wayne manor has
dialog: extra. After all, we're almost the
dialog: same size.
text: 17 The opposing wall is a shrine to Bruce Wayne: newspaper 17
text: headlines, a GQ cover, magazine photos.
text: 18 Approaching COMMOTION. 18
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Oh my God. It's him.
scene_heading: 19 INT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES - BREAK AREA 19
text: Workers greet the boss. Bruce is friendly, welcoming,
text: Edward appears on the edge of the group.
text: Stickley spots Edward. A cloud crosses his face.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Well, Mr. Wayne, on to R&D?
text: Stickley rests his hand on Wayne's elbow. Begins to steer
text: him away. Not in time.
text: Edward steps forward. A man so uncomfortable, his very
text: skin seems to be a costume. He marches right up to Wayne,
text: takes his hand, fawning, the burning eyes of a sycophant.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Mr...?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: Bruce Wayne. In the flesh.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (easy going)
dialog: Um...I'm pretty sure I'm Bruce
dialog: Wayne. And you are?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Nygma. Edward Nygma. You hired me.
dialog: Personally. Just like I tell
dialog: everyone.
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: Well, we've never actually met, but
dialog: your name was on the hire slip.
text: He still hasn't let go of Bruce's hand.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm gonna need that hand back, Ed.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What? Ah yes. Of course. I'm sorry.
dialog: It's just that...you're my idol.
dialog: (off Stickley)
dialog: And some people have been trying to
dialog: keep us apart.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Mr. Nygma, you'll forgive me for
dialog: being rude. But what exactly is on
dialog: your mind?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Precisely. What's on all our minds?
dialog: Brainwaves. The future of Wayne
dialog: Enterprises is Brainwaves!
dialog: It's hard to imagine anyone more awkward. The effect is
text: painful. Folks stare, mouths wide.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: I really do apologize, Mr. Wayne.
dialog: His project was terminated this
dialog: morning...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (ignoring Stickley)
dialog: Let me ask you something, Bruce.
dialog: What is man's greatest tool?
text: A few of the WOMEN SNICKER. For a second, Edward's face
text: twitches, a crack in the facade.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Man's greatest tool is...The mind.
text: 20 Edward gestures to his cubicle. A rat's nest cluttered 20
text: with components of his Rube Goldberg-like invention.
speaker_heading: 21 EDWARD 21
text: Voila. While holographically
dialog: enhancing any TV picture, my
dialog: invention connects directly to the
text: viewer's brain, puts the audience
dialog: inside the show. Think of the
dialog: entertainment problems we can solve.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: I can think of a couple problems
dialog: that need solving right here.
text: A few more folks CHUCKLE. Edward looks around. Another
text: ripple of anxiety, another quick recovery.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Why be brutalized by an uncaring
dialog: world? My RES Box will give Joe Q
text: Public a realm where he is king.
dialog: (sultry)
dialog: Not that someone like you would need
dialog: it. Someone so intelligent. Witty.
dialog: Charming. But for the lonely, the...
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Paranoid? The psychotic?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (didn't miss it)
dialog: ...The Box can change their lives.
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Our stock coupons will spike.
text: Edward turns, actually CLAPS Stickley on the back.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Hell. Might even bring old Stickley
dialog: here a few extra bucks. Huh, Fred?
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Fred?
text: Bruce takes off his glasses, rubs his eyes in vague
text: disbelief, cleans the lenses.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Wayne Enterprises will spearhead an
dialog: entertainment revolution.
text: Edward removes his glasses, cleans them in exactly the
dialog: same manner as Bruce.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I just need a bit of additional
dialog: funding. For human trials. Let me
dialog: show you....
text: Bruce seems about to speak when suddenly -
scene_heading: 22 THE BATSIGNAL 22
text: beams bright against the night clouds over Gotham City.
speaker_heading: 23 BRUCE 23
dialog: (time to move)
dialog: Maybe some other time..
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I want you to know, we'll be full
dialog: partners in this, Bruce.
dialog: (waxing rhapsodic)
dialog: What talks we'll have, late into the
dialog: night. Now, I'm not used to business
dialog: travel, so go easy on me. As for
dialog: recognition, I'm sure after a time
dialog: I'll get used to it.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Look at us. Two of a kind.
text: Edward is suddenly aware of dozens of co-workers all
text: around him, SNICKERING and WHISPERING.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Bruce...?
text: Bruce's eyes dart again toward the Batsignal.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Call my secretary, she'll set
dialog: something up.
dialog: (turning)
dialog: Factory looks great, folks. Keep up
dialog: the good work.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: Wait. You can't go.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: We'll talk some other -
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (sudden rage)
dialog: No. Don't leave me! My invention! I
dialog: need you!
text: Edward has grabbed Bruce's arm. The room goes dead quiet.
text: Bruce's eyes narrow. Then he dislodges gently.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm sorry, Edward. Just feels a bit
dialog: like mind manipulation. It raises
dialog: too many question marks.
text: Bruce heads off.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Alright everyone, back to work.
dialog: (to Edward)
dialog: We'll discuss this later.
text: Edward stares after Bruce.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You were supposed to understand.
text: HOLD on this tiny man, all alone in the labyrinthine
text: work-place, eyes darkening now with growing obsession.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll make you understand.
scene_heading: 24 INT. BRUCE WAYNE's PRIVATE OFFICE 24
text: Bruce ENTERS.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Lock.
text: 25 THE DOOR - CLOSE. LOCKS. Bruce falls into a leather chair. 25
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Capsule.
text: 26 Suddenly the chair seat drops, fast, sliding into a 26
dialog: transport capsule.
scene_heading: 27 INT. TRANSPORT TUNNEL 27
text: The capsule shoots through the underground tunnel, lights
text: WHIPPING past at near super-sonic speed.
scene_heading: 28 INT. CAPSULE 28
text: Speed and time readouts appear on the windscreen beside
text: the craggy face of ALFRED PENNYWORTH.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred...
speaker_heading: 29 ALFRED 29
dialog: I saw the signal, is. All is ready.
scene_heading: 30 INT. BAT CAVE - COSTUME VAULT 30
text: Alfred watches the capsule arrive.
text: 31 QUICK CUTS of glove, boot, and cape being donned. 31
scene_heading: 32 INT. BATCAVE 32
text: FOLLOW Batman's feet as he steps up to the Batmobile.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I suppose I couldn't convince you to
dialog: take along a sandwich.
text: Batman jumps into the Batmobile.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (to Alfred)
dialog: I'll get drive-thru.
dialog: (to the car)
dialog: Go...
text: 33 The car shoots a whitish-blue light from under it's 33
text: belly. Hub Caps and detailing glow as The Batmobile zooms
text: out of the cave.
scene_heading: 34 INT. CAVE ACCESS TUBE 34
text: The car SHOOTS through a series of underground arches.
text: The car picks up speed, the blue-white fusion drive going
text: blue, then purple, then red. The single bat wing splits
text: into two as the car becomes a stealth bullet.
scene_heading: 35 EXT. WAYNE ESTATE - NIGHT 35
text: The dark car WHIPS through a holograph of trees that
text: masks the entrance to the Batcave, SCREECHING onto...
scene_heading: 36 EXT. FOREST ROADS - NIGHT 36
text: The car speeds towards Gotham.
text: 37 ANGLE OUTSIDE THE WINDOW ON 37
text: The Batsignal, cutting the darkness.
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
scene_heading: 38 INT. SECOND BANK OF GOTHAM - 22ND FLOOR - NIGHT 38
text: A worried THUG peers at the Batsignal out the skyscraper
text: window. Across a narrow abyss stands a skyscraper under
text: construction, all girders and scaffolding.
text: 39 In f.g., a spinning silver dollar flips up into frame, 39
text: blocking out the Batsignal.
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: Bat should show any minute, Face.
text: A HAND catches the coin, flips it again.
speaker_heading: 40 WIDER 40
text: Witness the rakishly handsome profile of HARVEY TWO-FACE
text: DENT, the other side of his face hidden in shadow.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You. Sport. Any thoughts? Counting
dialog: on Batass to rescue you?
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
text: A SECURITY GUARD, laying on the floor, wrists and feet
text: bound, trembling with fear.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: _We_ sure are.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: ...You gonna kill me?
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Might. Might not. Could say we're of
text: two minds on the subject.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: I got family. ...Please.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: What say we flip for it?
text: Two-ace shoves the silver dollar under the Guard's nose.
text: One side shines in mint condition.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: What could be fairer than the random
dialog: toss of an honest coin? Life...
text: The other side bears deep, disfiguring burns.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: ...or death.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Please. I swear I won't say noth-
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: The coin _wants_ to decide.
text: 41 Two-Face flips. The coin spins, gleaming, lands on the 41
text: floor only inches from the Guard's face.
text: 42 Two-Face STOMPS the coin. Winks at the sweating Guard. 42
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Exhilarating, isn't it? The
dialog: suspense? Sudden death or a new
dialog: lease on life? Really makes a man
dialog: live in the moment.
text: Two-Face removes his foot. Unblemished side up.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You're in luck. You get to live to
text: whimper another day.
text: The Guard SOBS with relief. Harvey's Thugs GRUMBLE.
text: Two-Face folds his jacket into a pillow, places it under
text: the Guard's head, now the nicest crook in the world.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: That floor has got to be very hard.
dialog: Is that better?
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Uh, yeah. Thanks, Mr..uh...Face.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Just call us Harvey. Can we get you
dialog: a sandwich? A soft drink? Given all
dialog: the trouble we caused you, how about
dialog: we cut you in for a share of
dialog: tonight's haul?
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: Face! For cryin' out loud! You're
dialog: not gonna pay him--
text: Two-Face turns on Thug 2 with a vengeance, shooting out a
text: hand that pins the fellow's throat to the wall.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Did we ask your opinion? The coin
dialog: has rendered its verdict. This man
dialog: has a family to take care of. You
dialog: have a problem with that?
text: We now see for the first time the LEFT HALF OF HIS FACE:
text: hideously repulsive, an acid eaten mutilation of flesh.
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: Oh no, Face. Anything you say.
scene_heading: 43 EXT. PAN-ASIA TOWN - STREET - NIGHT 43
text: Sweeping spots. Swat teams. Police wagons.
text: 44 COMMISIONER GORDON, 50s, a man who's seen enough pain 44
text: for a lifetime, stands in his trademark trenchcoat,
text: lighting a cigarette.
text: Beside him stands a beautiful, professionally dressed
text: young woman. DR. CHASE MERIDIAN.
scene_heading: 45 HIGH ABOVE 45
text: The Batmobile SCREECHES to a stop on a pedestrian bridge.
text: 46 THE BATSIGNAL is suddenly obscured, flows for a moment 46
text: into the shape of Batman's cape as the Dark Knight leaps
text: 47 down past the spotlight, lands face to face with Chase. 47
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Hot entrance.
text: Batman turns, all business as he speaks to Gordon.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Two-Face?
speaker_heading: GORDON
text: Two guards dead. He's holding the
dialog: third hostage. Didn't see this one
dialog: coming.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: We should have, though.
text: The men turn to face her.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: _Two_ million dollars waiting to be
dialog: transferred from the _Second_ Bank of
dialog: Gotham on the _22nd_ How could Harvey?
dialog: _Two_-Face resist?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: And you are?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Batman, I'd like you to meet--
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (offering her hand)
dialog: Chase Meridian
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I asked Dr. Meridian to come to
dialog: Gotham to consult on this case. She
dialog: specializes...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: ...dual personalities. Abnormal
dialog: psychology. Washington's poster
dialog: child for the criminally insane. I
dialog: read your work.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I'm flattered. Not every girl makes
dialog: a super-hero's night table. You
dialog: might have some interesting insights
dialog: into Two-Face.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Why's that?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Let's just say I could write a hell
text: of a paper on a grown man who
text: dresses like a flying rodent.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Bats aren't rodents, Dr. Meridian.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I didn't know that. See? You _are_
dialog: interesting. And call me Chase. By
dialog: the way, do you have a first name? Or
dialog: do I just call you bats?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: May I remind you two we have a
text: psychopathic murderer on the loose
dialog: here?
text: A titanic BOOM rocks the night.
text: 48 SEARCHLIGHTS race up the skeletal skyscraper to REVEAL.. 48
text: A giant CRANE and WRECKING BALL. The wrecking ball
text: SMASHES again into the bank building.
scene_heading: 49 INT. BANK OF GOTHAM - NIGHT 49
text: The already crumbling wall behind Two Face EXPLODES. Two-
text: Face checks his watch, unfazed, as the giant wrecking
text: ball CRASHES into the room within inches of the villain.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: Right on schedule.
text: Two-Face's men scramble to the hole, attach chains to...
scene_heading: 50 EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 50
text: ...an even thicker chain dangling 30 stories from the
text: roof of the construction site.
text: FOLLOW THE CHAIN UP as it yanks tight, revealing...
text: A BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER already atop the construction
text: site, perched on steel beams. REVVING its mighty rotors.
text: 51 A giant winch aboard the Blackhawk starts to haul the 51
text: safe chain over pulleys up into a cargo hatch.
scene_heading: 52 INT. - SECOND BANK OF GOTHAM. 22ND FLOOR, NIGHT 52
text: Thug 1 stares out the window.
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: The Bat's taking the bait! What now?
text: 53 Harvey flips the coin. 53
text: 54 FOLLOW THE COIN as Two-Face snatches it from mid-air, 54
text: slaps it on his wrist. Bad side up.
text: 55 ANGLE ON - Two-Face's left side. Scarred, gloating evil. 55
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: At last, The Bat dies!
text: The chains suddenly yank the safe towards the hole in the
text: wall. Thug 2 gestures to the Guard on the floor.
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: What about him?
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Kill him too.
text: Thug 2, grinning, draws a GUN from his waistband.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Wait! You said you'd let me go!
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Never heard of a double-cross?
text: 56 A DING from the elevators. 56
text: The Thugs and Harvey all whirl, machine guns coming up,
text: open FIRE, armor piercing bullets punching holes in the
text: metal doors, shredding anyone inside.
text: THE GUARD lays bound on the floor. Suddenly a clamp-ended
text: bat-cable drops from above. With a tiny CLICK, the smart-
text: clamp hooks onto the Guard's wrist bindings.
speaker_heading: 57 ELEVATORS 57
text: HARVEY AND THUGS empty magazines. Re-load.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Come on in, the water's fine.
text: All stand watching as the now perforated elevator doors
text: slide, jerking, open to reveal...an empty elevator.
text: The skylight overhead EXPLODES and, in a rain of glass,
text: Batman drops to the floor on a Batrope.
text: 58 THE GUARD is apparently attached to the Batrope's other 58
text: end because, as the Caped Crusader comes down, the Guard
text: shoots up, hoisted fast to the safe rooftop above.
speaker_heading: 59 FIRE DOORS 59
text: BLOW open. Two SWAT teams burst in, armed for bear.
speaker_heading: SWAT LEADER
dialog: Police! Freeze!
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Not the guest list we had in mind.
text: Boys, the party's over.
text: Two-Face drops a SMOKE GRENADE. Then he leaps directly
text: out the hole in the wall. His Thugs take off after him.
scene_heading: 60 EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 60
text: The Thugs come leaping through the hole, using the now
text: rising safe as a springboard to close the windy gap, roll
text: to safety on the construction site next door. They
text: scatter, begin scaling various beams and girders.
scene_heading: 61 INT. BANK 61
text: Swat Teams race through the smoke in close pursuit, come
text: up short at the edge of the urban precipice. The safe has
text: risen too high, now, to serve as a springboard, so the
text: cops drop, begin FIRING across the gap. Suddenly...
text: A DARK WING explodes out of the smoke behind them, flying
text: across the abyss.
scene_heading: 62 INT. CONSTRUCTION SIGHT 62
text: A Thug fires at the figure hurling towards him. Batman
text: lands on the Thug's chest, smashing him to the floor.
text: Suddenly, from above, BULLETS CRACK off the girders
text: beside the Caped Crusader's head.
scene_heading: 63 REVERSE ANGLE 63
text: TWO-FACE glides upward, riding the wrecking ball as it
text: overtakes the safe, shooting down at Batman.
text: 64 BATMAN starts scaling the scaffolding after Two-Face. 64
text: He's climbing fast but Harvey has too great a lead.
text: 65 BATMAN - POV. A motorized gantry is carrying one of the 65
text: Thugs up to the roof.
text: 66 Batman FIRES a Batarang. The bat-shaped clamp bites into 66
text: the wooden base of the rising gantry.
text: He toggles the launcher into winch mode, is hoisted fast
text: towards the rising gantry above.
scene_heading: 67 ON THE GANTRY 67
text: The riding Thug leans down, sees the rising shadow, grabs
text: the Batrope in both hands and flips over the gantry.
scene_heading: 68 ON THE BATROPE 68
text: The Thug slides fast down to kicking range, draws back
text: his boot to dispatch Batman.
text: Batman hits a switch on his launcher, increasing the
text: winch speed, shooting him higher, faster. He grabs the
text: Thug's foot in his hand, shoves him up so his head CRACKS
text: against the bottom of the gantry. Batman swings the
text: unconscious Thug onto a hanging construction hook,
text: leaving him dangling in mid-air by his nose ring, hoists
dialog: himself up onto...
speaker_heading: 69 THE GANTRY 69
text: From the scaffolding above, a Thug drops to one end of
text: the gantry, nun-chucks spinning madly.
text: Behind Batman, another Thug drops INTO FRAME, drawing a
text: machine pistol.
text: Batman reaches forward, grabs the Thug's spinning nun-
text: chuck, stunning his face with the wooden sticks. In a
text: single move, Batman spins and lets the weapon fly into
text: the pistoled assailant, knocking him flat.
text: 70 BATMAN - POV. Two-Face has reached the chopper. 70
scene_heading: 71 INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT 71
text: Two-Face climbs into the chopper's cargo bay.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: (to the pilot)
dialog: Let's fly.
scene_heading: 72 EXT. GANTRY - NIGHT 72
text: Batman sees the helicopter start to rise, pulling the
text: safe overhead along with it.
text: 73 Batman jumps, drops through the abyss between the two 73
text: buildings, landing on...
text: 74 A HIGH TENSION WIRE - CLOSE. The wire bends like a bow, 74
text: shooting Batman like an arrow straight into the air.
text: 75 Batman grabs the rising chain, slides down it's links so 75
text: he is standing atop the safe.
text: 76 He FIRES a Batarang into the bank wall, making an anchor, 76
text: attaches the Bat-cable to the hitch atop the safe.
scene_heading: 77 INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT 77
text: The chopper is straining against Batman's bank-embedded
text: tether. Two-Face looks down in fury.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: The man is taking his job
dialog: _much too seriously_.
scene_heading: 78 EXT. TOP OF SAFE - NIGHT 78
text: Batman palms a compartment on his utility belt and a
text: small delivery mechanism SNAPS a tiny acetylene torch
text: into his gloved hand.
text: A BLUE FLAME ignites. Batman starts to cut the chains.
scene_heading: 79 EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - NIGHT 79
text: Batman's torch slices the last link. Batman reaches up
text: and grabs the winch chain, is jerked suddenly upward with
text: the now un-tethered chopper as...
speaker_heading: 80 THE SAFE 80
text: now freed, swings like a pendulum on it's anchor line,
text: arcing straight for the hole in the bank wall from which
dialog: it was originally drawn.
scene_heading: 81 INT. BANK BUILDING 81
text: The safe comes flying through the hole, sliding across the
text: floor and SLAMMING back into place before the bewildered
text: faces of the SWAT team.
scene_heading: 82 INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT 82
text: Two-Face stares out the side of the chopper.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: That was our money.
text: Two-Face grabs the controls from the pilot.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: He wants to play. Fine, let's play.
text: 83 Two-Face pulls back on the throttle, the chopper shooting 83
text: straight up into the sky like a rocket.
scene_heading: 84 EXT. GOTHAM SKY - NIGHT 84
text: Batman hangs from the chain, trailing the chopper, a wing
text: of shadowy quicksilver disappearing into the night.
scene_heading: 85 EXT. ARKHAM SQUARE - NIGHT - ESTABLISHING 85
text: Gotham's Times Square. Tall. Narrow. The crawl of bumper-
text: to-bumper traffic. Glutted with neon signs and giant
text: animated billboards.
text: 86 The helicopter ROARS into view. BATMAN hangs on for dear 86
text: life as the city rushes past.
text: 87 A SERIES OF SHOTS as street folks look up in wonder. 87
text: 88 SIGN - CLOSE. For Ginsu Knives. A couple of giant hands 88
text: make fast work of a steak on a smoking barbecue.
text: The chopper swings Batman _through_ the ad, falling blades
text: just missing him, dragging him through the thick smoke.
text: The chopper swings across the square, heading for...
text: 89 ANOTHER SIGN - CLOSE. This time a tremendous set of 89
text: clacking teeth turn yellow to white each time the cap
text: lifts off of a giant tube of toothpaste.
text: 90 The chopper barrels straight for the opening mouth. 90
text: At the last moment the chopper banks, whipping the
text: dangling Batman inside the mouth.
text: 91 The mouth closes on the Caped Crusader. 91
text: 92 The chopper pulls away, the chain pulling like floss 92
text: through the closed teeth.
scene_heading: 93 INT. MOUTH 93
text: Batman, still clutching the chain, is flying towards the
text: barricade of closed teeth.
scene_heading: 94 EXT. ARKHAM SQUARE - MOUTH SIGN 94
text: Batman SMASHES through the two front teeth.
text: 95 BATMAN - CLOSE. His face suddenly bathed in an ever 95
text: brightening yellow glow.
scene_heading: 96 INT. CHOPPER 96
scene_heading: TWO-FACE'S POV - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD
text: Dead ahead, another sign. This one is essentially a giant
text: neon sun, the Wayne Tech logo burning bright yellows and
text: reds over the message Solar: The Power of the Future.
text: 97 Harvey GUNS the chopper's engines. 97
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: Face!!!
scene_heading: 98 EXT. GOTHAM SKY 98
text: The chopper BLOWS straight through the nova, neon
text: EXPLODING like stars in all directions.
scene_heading: 99 INT. HELICOPTER 99
text: As the Pilot, in the b.g. regains control of the chopper,
text: Harvey walks to the hold, looks down through the hatch at
text: the dangling chain below. No Batman.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Ah, to finally be rid of that pointy
text: eared, steroid eating, rubber
dialog: suited, cross dressing, night rat...
scene_heading: 100 THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD 100
text: a familiar blue cape falls down over the plexi-glass.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: Uh...boss....
text: Harvey spins, draws his machine pistol.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: No!
text: Too late. Harvey SPRAYS wildly, blowing holes in the
dialog: windshield and Pilot as well.
scene_heading: 101 EXT. HELICOPTER 101
text: The cape slips off the windscreen
scene_heading: 102 INT. HELICOPTER 102
text: The chopper dives. Two-Face staggers towards the pilot's
text: chair. He rests free the corpse, regains control.
text: A FIST SMASHES through the side window into Harvey's jaw.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Harvey, you need help. Give it up.
scene_heading: 103 EXT. HELICOPTER 103
text: Batman stands on one of the struts, begins trying to
text: climb into the open side of the speeding bird.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Words of wisdom from our ex-friend?
text: Harvey SLAMS Batman's face with his foot. He goes down.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Mano a Mano a Bato.
text: Batman pulls himself back up. Grabs Harvey's foot. Flips
text: him to the floor. Drags him half way out of the bird.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Surrender.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Ever been to Arkham, Batman? You'd
dialog: feel right at home. You took a year
dialog: of my life. So I'm here to pay you
dialog: back. There's only one way out of
dialog: this waltz. One of us dies.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I won't kill you, Harvey.
text: Batman gets Harvey by the throat.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Batman doesn't kill? Bullshit.
dialog: (epiphinous)
dialog: You're a killer too.
text: Somehow Harvey's words seem to shake Batman a beat. It's
dialog: all the distraction Harvey needs. He SMASHES Batman
text: across the face.
text: Batman slips, falls out of sight.
text: 104 WINDSHIELD - CLOSE. Lady Gotham is coming up fast. 104
scene_heading: 105 EXT. HELICOPTER 105
text: Batman hangs by one hand from the support strut, the bird
text: hurling towards the giant statue.
scene_heading: 106 INT. HELICOPTER 106
text: Harvey locks "The Club" onto the controls, fixing the
text: chopper on it's deadly course.
text: 107 Batman hoists himself into the chopper through the open 107
text: side in time to see Harvey standing over the cargo hatch.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Goodbye old pal.
text: With that Harvey leaps through the cargo hatch.
text: 108 Batman stares frozen in disbelief as Two-Face plummets to 108
text: the dark water below.
text: 109 Then a sudden flurry of expanding color caught in Lady 109
text: Gotham's lighthouse beam, and a parachute opens over Two-
text: Face, unfolding into a giant Yin-Yang.
text: 110 BATMAN - POV - The windshield SHATTERS into the statue. 110
scene_heading: 111 EXT. HELICOPTER - LADY GOTHAM - NIGHT 111
text: The helicopter EXPLODES into the left side of Lady
text: Gotham's face. A tremendous fireball splits the night.
scene_heading: 112 EXT. GOTHAM SKY - NIGHT 112
text: Batman is falling. Still. Eyes closed. Maybe dead.
speaker_heading: FLASHES OF
text: 113 (OVER) A SCREAM. Two SHOTS. A pair of roses hit pavement. 113
text: 114 A BOY runs through a storm, a book clutched in his hands. 114
text: 115 A FALL down a narrow stone chute, into a cave. 115
text: 116 A BAT, huge, evil, SCREECHING. 116
scene_heading: TWO-FACE'S WORDS (OVER) - "YOU'RE A KILLER TOO."
scene_heading: 117 BATMAN FALLING - CLOSE 117
text: Batman plummets towards the water. His eyes open.
scene_heading: 118 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR (CONTINUOUS) 118
text: Batman SPLASHES into the harbor. Dark. Still.
text: Then, a familiar cowl breaks the surface, GASPING for
text: breath. Batman stares up at the sky.
speaker_heading: 119 PAN UP 119
text: Lady Gotham's one beautiful face now burns the night.
scene_heading: 120 INT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES - NIGHT 120
text: Dark, save the light from a single cubicle.
scene_heading: 121 INT. EDWARD'S WORK STATION - NIGHT 121
text: Edward sits hunched over his desk, working on his
text: invention. Sweat beads his brow, lips MUMBLING furiously.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (obsessive repetition)
dialog: Too many questions. Too many
dialog: questions.
text: Edward glances up at the picture of Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll show you it works.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY (O.S.)
dialog: What the hell is going on here?
text: Stickley stands before Edward's cubicle. Not happy.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Your project is terminated. I'm
dialog: calling security.
text: Stickley turns to go. Mistake. Edward CRACKS Stickley on
text: the head with a coffee pot. Down he goes.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Caffine'll kill you.
scene_heading: 122 INT. EDWARD'S CUBICLE - MINUTES LATER 122
text: Stickley awakens to find himself strapped in a swivel
text: chair. Edward is placing an elaborate computerized
text: headband over Stickley's head. (OVER) a small TV hooked
text: into Edward's contraption runs a fishing show.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: This won't hurt a bit.
dialog: (musing)
dialog: At least I don't think it will.
text: Edward reaches for a small transceiver fused to the TV.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Goddamnit, you press that button
dialog: and-
text: 123 Too late. A green beam explodes from the TV screen, 123
text: engulfing Stickley.
text: 124 IN THE BEAM - a small holographic representation of the 124
text: fisherman reeling in a prize bass.
scene_heading: 125 STICKLEY - POV - As far as Fred is concerned he's on the 125
text: shore, the fisherman's catch flapping in his face.
text: 126 The TV signals begin to waver and tremble. 126
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Loosing resolution. More power.
text: He increases the power toggle. BACKFIRE. A sudden white
text: light shoots back into the TV and up, surrounding Ed.
text: STICKLEY - CLOSE. His eyes dull, glaze over.
text: EDWARD - CLOSE. The effect on him seems to be quite the
text: opposite. Invigorating, sexual.
text: THE BEAM-FLARES. A tiny nova. Overload. Both men SCREAM.
text: All light vanishes.
text: EDWARD - CLOSE. His face buried in his hands.
text: Edward peers up from his hands.
dialog: Look into his eyes. One thing is sure. Edward Nygma has
text: gone power mad, totally insane.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (game show host)
dialog: Fred Stickley. Come on down. You're
dialog: the next contestant on I Want Your
dialog: Brain.
dialog: (Wayne-like)
dialog: Nygma your machine has unexpected
text: side effects. A feed back loop has
dialog: caused your brain to absorb
dialog: Stickley's neural energy.
dialog: (hyper)
dialog: Stickley, I've had a break-
dialog: through! And a breakdown? Maybe.
dialog: Nevertheless. I'm smarter. Hell, I'm
dialog: a genius. More than a genius.
dialog: Several geniuses. Genae. Genie.
text: Ed rises, BABBLES a dazed Fred's lips with his finger.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (short order cook)
dialog: Yo. Charlie. Gimmie an order of
dialog: brain deep-fry. Extra well done.
dialog: Hold the neurons.
dialog: (a scientist)
dialog: Patient exhibits symptoms of psycho
dialog: neural overload. Notation: obviously
dialog: higher settings can be dangerous to
dialog: the subject.
dialog: (pacing)
dialog: Riddle me this, Fred. What is
dialog: everything to someone and nothing to
dialog: everyone else? Your mind of course.
text: And now mine pumps with the power of
dialog: yours.
dialog: (urban)
dialog: New from Brain-bok. Da pump. Think
dialog: faster. Reason higher. Out-cog-nate
dialog: every homey on the court of life. Da
dialog: pump. Yeah.
dialog: (Shakespearian)
dialog: Ho! Mark. I sense an odd penchant
dialog: for the anagramatic. The acrostic.
dialog: The crypto-graphic. What doth this
dialog: bode? Answer me Marcutio, you little
dialog: runt.
dialog: (gourmet)
dialog: Fred, I must confess you were a
dialog: wonderful appetizer. Simply divine.
dialog: But now I yearn for a meal of
text: substance. The main course. A wide
dialog: and varied palette. Ah, to taste the
text: mind of a hero. A nobleman. A poet.
dialog: (Groucho)
dialog: A chick in a short skirt wouldn't be
dialog: so bad either.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: ...Fired...your fired...your fired.
dialog: You understand?! Fired!!
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I don't think so.
text: Edward savagely sends Stickley careening across the slick
text: floor still strapped to the swivel chair.
text: 127 Stickley heads straight for the huge round window. 127
text: 128 Edward seems like he has regrets as he dashes after 128
dialog: Stickley. The chair...
text: 129 SMASHES THROUGH THE ROUND WINDOW 129
text: It teeters on the edge of the building, dam and RUSHING
text: water below. Stickley is being held on the precipice by
text: the long wire attached to his headband. It is really only
dialog: this that Edward came to save.
speaker_heading: 130 EDWARD 130
dialog: Fred. Babe. _You_ are fired. Or should
dialog: I say Terminated!
text: He yanks the invention from Stickley's head and he
text: crashes below to certain death. Ed races back to...
speaker_heading: 131 EDWARD'S CUBICLE 131
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Question marks, Mr. Wayne?
text: He stands staring at the picture of Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: My work raises too many question
dialog: marks?
text: In a frenzy, Edward begins tearing up the magazines lying
text: on his desk, ripping out individual words, pasting them
text: quickly onto a blank piece of paper.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Two years. 3.5762 percent of my
dialog: estimated lifespan toiling for your
dialog: greater glory and profit.
text: He SMASHES the framed GQ cover of Bruce on the floor.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Well, let me ask you some questions,
dialog: Mr. Smarter Than Thou. Why are you
dialog: so debonair? Successful? Richer than
dialog: God? Why should you have it all and
dialog: not me? Yes, you're right, there are
dialog: too many questions, Bruce Wayne.
text: Edward STOMPS on the picture, pulverizing the glass.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Like why hasn't anybody put you in
dialog: your place? And it's time you came
dialog: up with some answers. Starting right
dialog: now!
scene_heading: A SERIES OF IMAGES-
text: 132 (OVER) A SCREAM. SHOTS. Roses fall to the pavement. 132
text: 133 A YOUNG BOY stands staring into a parlor where two 133
text: coffins rest. Thomas and Martha Wayne. Dead leaves whip
text: through the hallway.
text: 134 SMALL HANDS touch a leather bound book. Suddenly the 134
text: pages are splattered with blood. Wind blows out two
text: flickering candles.
text: 135 THE BOY runs through a dark, stormy night, the book 135
text: clutched in his hands. He slips. A sinkhole.
text: 136 A FALL down a narrow chute. The boy lands in a dark cave. 136
text: 137 A GIANT MONARCH BAT, fangs bared, SCREECHES towards us. 137
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE (V.O.)
dialog: You're a killer too.
scene_heading: 138 INT. WAYNE MANOR - BRUCE'S BEDROOM - MORNING 138
text: In his bed, Bruce wakes, trying to blink away the images.
text: Alfred draws the curtains, welcoming rich autumn sun.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The dreams again, sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I think they're getting worse.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: It's a wonder you sleep at all.
text: As Bruce sits up, Alfred notices a fresh set of bruises.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What a marvelous shade of purple.
text: Bruce shoots him a look.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Really, sir, if you insist on trying
dialog: to get yourself killed each night.
text: Alfred picks up Bruce's carelessly-tossed Batsuit from
text: the floor. Ripped, dented, punctured.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: ...Would it be a terrible imposition
dialog: to ask you to take better care of
dialog: your equipment?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Then you'd have nothing to complain
dialog: about.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Hardly a worry, sir.
text: Alfred brings a robe, holds it out for Bruce.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Commissioner Gordon phoned. There's
dialog: been an accident at Wayne
dialog: Enterprises.
scene_heading: 139 INT. - WAYNE ENTERPRISES - MORNING 139
text: As the window is replaced in b.g., Edward Nygma stands
text: SOBBING before the head of personnel. With augmented
dialog: brain power apparently comes augmented acting talent.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (inconsolable)
dialog: Why? Oh, why? I can't believe it.
dialog: Two years. Working in the same
dialog: office. Shoulder to shoulder, cheek
dialog: to cheek, ---we're talking face, by
dialog: the way---and then this.
dialog: (handing her a note)
dialog: I found this in my cubicle. You'll
dialog: find the handwriting matches his
dialog: exactly as does sentence structure
dialog: and spelling.
dialog: (suddenly sobbing again)
dialog: I couldn't possibly continue on
dialog: here. The memories. I'll just get my
dialog: things.
speaker_heading: 140 ANOTHER ANGLE 140
text: Edward slips out a side door, quickly avoiding Bruce and
text: Gordon as they walk towards Bruce's office.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We've questioned everyone who worked
text: on the floor. Computer records show
dialog: no one going in or out after
dialog: Stickley.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Computer records can be forged.
dialog: I'll have my people pull up --
text: A cop hands Gordon the forged note.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Suicide. With all due respect, leave
dialog: the police work to us. We'll be in
dialog: touch.
text: As the Commissioner exits, Bruce heads into his office,
text: followed by his secretary, MARGARET.
scene_heading: 141 INT. BRUCE'S OFFICE (CONTINUOUS) 141
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: The society matrons of Gotham have
dialog: called a record thirty-two times.
dialog: Not to mention the press. I think
dialog: that if they don't know soon who you
dialog: plan to take to the charity circus,
dialog: the world will most surely come to
dialog: an end.
text: Bruce notices an envelope on his desk.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I don't know. I didn't see anyone...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: No postmark. No stamp.
text: Bruce opens the envelope.
text: 142 LETTER - CLOSE. A photo of Bruce. Below: letters cut from 142
dialog: newspapers and magazines read:
speaker_heading: (RIDDLE#1) (to be written)
dialog: signed -The Riddler
text: 143 Bruce raises an eyebrow. 143
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The Riddler? Why can't anyone in
dialog: this town have a normal name?
text: Phone RINGS. Bruce hits a switch and a desk video-phone
text: lights into life. Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Channel 12, sir.
text: Bruce presses a button and Alfred's image shrinks to a
text: small box in the corner, superimposed atop a TV picture.
scene_heading: 144 ON SCREEN - 144
text: A talk show in progress. A radiant black host: VONDELLE
text: MILLIONS talks to a panel of experts.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: --joined us, we're talking about the
dialog: mutilation of Lady Gotham, caused
dialog: late last night by Batman-
speaker_heading: 145 BRUCE 145
dialog: _Excuse_ me?!
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: -- will take up to nine months to
dialog: repair. Today's topic: Batman-crime-
dialog: fighter or criminal?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: How 'bout Two-Face? Anyone here
dialog: heard of him?
text: The shot WIDENS to reveal the panel.
scene_heading: 146 ON SCREEN - Our first expert: DR. JANISLAUS ROYCE. 146
speaker_heading: ROYCE
dialog: Batman is a major cause of crime in
dialog: Gotham. So-called super-villains
dialog: seek him out hoping to prove
dialog: themselves in violent conflict.
dialog: Batman does not deter crime, he
dialog: invites it.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: I'm sure our audience objects to
dialog: your gender bias. Batperson.
text: The second expert PIPES in, DR. DAVID AIMS.
speaker_heading: AIMS
dialog: What is the Dark Knight's credo?
dialog: Batman does not kill? What of those
dialog: slain during his fight with Jack
dialog: Napier aka Joker? Or in his
dialog: Christmas conflict with the orphan
dialog: Cobblepot? Batman belongs behind
dialog: bars, not his morally disadvantaged
dialog: victims.
speaker_heading: CHASE (O.S.)
dialog: Bull (bleep)!
speaker_heading: 147 WIDER 147
text: Chase sits at the end of the panel.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: What did you say?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Which part of the word didn't you
dialog: understand?
text: 148 Watching, Bruce sits a little straighter, more hopeful. 148
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I could like this woman.
speaker_heading: 149 CHASE 149
dialog: Batman is a _reaction_ to the crime in
dialog: this city, not a creator of it!
dialog: Without him many more would be dead.
dialog: Batman is a true hero...
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: Hey, Doc, got the hots for Batman?
text: HOOTS and HOLLERS from the audience.
scene_heading: CHASE - CLOSE. Busted.
text: 150 On screen, a graphic: BATMAN: CRIMEFIGHTER OR CRIMINAL? 150
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: What do you think? Call us at...
text: A HAND reaches up and SNAPS off the TV. The screen goes
text: black to reveal a reflection in the glass: Two-Face.
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
scene_heading: INT. TWO-FACE'S HIDEOUT - DAY
text: Two-Face turns away, disgusted.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Batman, Batman, Batman. God, we want
dialog: that man's blood on our hands.
speaker_heading: 151 WIDER 151
text: LEATHER sits to one side of Harvey. Ruby lipstick, tight
text: leather outfit, a choker o spikes, razor blade earrings,
text: stroking a muzzled black doberman.
speaker_heading: LEATHER
dialog: Oh you are most obscene, my
text: frightful grotesque.
text: Another set of arms entwine Two-Face.
text: LACE, a submissive blonde in Victoria's Secret's lacy
text: best nuzzles his good side, pets a white kitten.
speaker_heading: LACE
dialog: Don't listen to her. You're every
dialog: girl's dream.
speaker_heading: LEATHER
dialog: Waste Dorothy and Toto here, you and
dialog: me can get down to business.
text: Harvey SLAPS Leather, hard.
speaker_heading: LEATHER
dialog: Harder, baby. Hit me again.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: LEATHER
dialog: (hotter still)
dialog: Sadist.
text: He turns now to Lace, caresses her face gently.
scene_heading: WIDEN TO REVEAL
text: Two-Face's hideaway, divided straight down the middle.
text: Lace's half is all light and order. Leather's domain
text: looks like an S&M club.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Too many bats to fry to think about
dialog: fun. We wanna take him apart limb by
text: hyper-extended limb. Feel his bones
dialog: crunch in our hands. Beat him until
dialog: he's as black and blue as that
text: ridiculous rubber suit.
text: Without thinking, Harvey steps over the Laceland. His
text: demeanor instantly changes, now more reasoned and calm.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: On the other hand, perhaps something
text: slow, a delicious incursion of
text: despair, a campaign to shatter his
text: psyche and bring him crumbling to
text: his knees.
text: He wanders back across to Leatherland.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Hell. Why wait? Rupture his organs.
text: Shatter his spine. Still have time
dialog: for a late dinner.
text: Back in Laceland.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: But simple murder? It's just too
dialog: damn simple. Besides, it's been
dialog: done. No. We need a plan.
text: Back to Leatherland.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Yes. Something senseless, brutal,
text: savage, violent.
dialog: Back to Laceland, stopping to add...
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Yet witty.
scene_heading: 152 EXT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT 152
text: Edward peddles a bicycle down a service road towards
text: Wayne Manor, an envelope jutting from his shirt pocket.
scene_heading: 153 INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT 153
text: Alfred stands over a cage of bats. A hand-held scanner
dialog: producing distance readings.
text: Bruce sits before his Master Console.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How's the sonar coming, Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: A few hitches sir, but I'm confident
dialog: we'll have a prototype in no time.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It'll never work.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I believe you said the same thing
dialog: about the Batmobile.
text: (OVER) a doorbell RINGS. Alfred disappears upstairs.
scene_heading: 154 BRUCE - OVER THE SHOULDER 154
text: Bruce works a keyboard, manipulating the images on
dialog: various screens.
text: 155 SCREEN ONE - Replays the CNN story on Two-Face 155
text: 156 SCREEN TWO - Replays the Vondelle Williams show. 156
scene_heading: 157 SCREEN THREE - Runs news footage of Chase. 157
text: 158 As Alfred returns, Bruce splits the Chase screen, a list 158
text: of psychiatric texts scrolling beside her portrait.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Scholarly research?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: She has an excellent mind.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: If I misinterpreted your interest in
dialog: the lady, I humbly apologize--
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I wonder if she'd go out with me.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Apology hastily retracted.
text: Bruce freezes the image of Vondelle Williams over the
dialog: familiar graphic: Batman: Crimefighter or Criminal?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: They don't understand. They think I
dialog: became Batman to fight crime.
text: Bruce leans back, closes his eyes, his past never far.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Do you remember the night I fell
text: into that cave and the bat chased
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Your parents' wake. Rain fell like
dialog: tears.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...The night Batman was born.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: What was I doing in the fields that
dialog: night, Alfred? What sent me running
dialog: out into that storm? I keep dreaming
dialog: about it but I just can't remember.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I don't know, sir. Your dear
text: parents. Suddenly gone. So much
dialog: loss...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I remember the bat, though. His
dialog: scream. Those eyes. i was sure the
dialog: fear would kill me.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: In time I came to believe that if I
dialog: became a monster, that if I was
dialog: feared, I wouldn't be scared
dialog: anymore. I was wrong.
dialog: (off the screen)
dialog: They think I became Batman to fight
dialog: crime. I became Batman to fight the
dialog: fear. And instead I became the fear.
text: Alfred hands him an envelope.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps it's time you paid a bit
dialog: more attention to Bruce Wayne. There
dialog: was no one at the door, just this.
text: Within, (RIDDLE #2). His expression darkens.
scene_heading: 159 EXT. UGLY TENEMENT - BAD NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT 159
scene_heading: (OVER) SOUNDS OF POUNDING
scene_heading: 160 INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE EDWARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 160
scene_heading: The source of the POUNDING -- MRS. LUCERTOLA, Ed's
text: middle-aged, no-bullshit landlady.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: Ya wanna cough up your rent, or do I
dialog: post an eviction notice?
text: Locks TURN. The door opens a crack. Edward peeks out.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Mrs. Lucertola. What a surprise.
dialog: Come in. I was just sitting down to
dialog: write the check.
scene_heading: 161 INT. EDWARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 161
text: Mrs. Lucertola barges inside -- then stops, aghast.
speaker_heading: HER POV-
dialog: Five people might live here. Sports magazines. Stock
text: market tickers. Half completed paintings and sculptures.
text: Blueprints. In the corner an old circus booth containing
text: a manikin of the green-clad, can wielding Guesser.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: What is it exactly that you do, Mr.
dialog: Nygma?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: My dear Ms. Lucertola. Italian,
dialog: isn't it? For lizard. How fitting. I
dialog: think the question better asked:
dialog: what is it that I don't do?
text: Ed guides Mrs. Lucertola to a sofa before the TV.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Most recently I have devised a way
dialog: to change the destiny of mankind and
dialog: the world as we know it, all in my
dialog: favor of course.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: The rent Nygma!!!
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Might I persuade you to take a seat
dialog: on this couch? To indulge me in a
dialog: little experiment?
text: He shoves her down.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: Hey, I got no time for-
text: Edward clamps a new, streamlined headband on her head.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Showtime.
text: He clicks on the TV. An evening soap.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: My favorite story.
text: Atop the TV rests a small box. The next generation of his
dialog: Remote Encephalographic Stimulator.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Yes. TV. Balm to the minds of the
dialog: masses. The great deadener. If only
dialog: it were more lively. But wait. I can
dialog: help.
text: He hits a switch on the Box and the familiar beam engulfs
text: his landlady, the holographic image of the screen's
text: kissing couple now hovering in mid-air before her.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: Oh my lord.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Not quite. But I'm getting there.
scene_heading: 162 MRS. LUCERTOLA - POV - She might as well be sitting on the 162
text: foot of the bed as the two lovers' embrace heats up.
text: Edward waves his hand in front of her eyes. Nothing. The
text: same dazed expression that Stickley wore.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Now this is much better. No pain.
dialog: Just a little holographic TV to keep
dialog: your mind off the fact...
text: Edward PLANTS an ELECTRODE on his forehead.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: ...That I'm taking your mind.
dialog: (professional)
dialog: Not your thoughts, mind you. Just
dialog: your neural energy, simply sucking
dialog: some IQ points as it were.
text: A GREEN-BLUE aura forms around Edward's head.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (announcer)
text: His intelligence jumps. Ms. Lizard
text: don't know it. The crowd goes wild.
dialog: (CEO)
dialog: Boys, I want one of these babies in
dialog: every home.
dialog: (Clinton)
dialog: It's the new information super
dialog: highway and, pay attention now kids.
dialog: I'm the on ramp.
dialog: (ad-man)
dialog: From their brains to the TV to my
dialog: brain, with no commercial
dialog: interruptions!
dialog: (announcer)
dialog: There are seven million brains in
dialog: the Naked City...
dialog: (menacing)
dialog: ...and they're all mine!
scene_heading: 163 EXT. MUNICIPAL POLICE COMPLEX - DAY 163
text: Gothic. Active. Bruce enters the complex.
scene_heading: 164 INT. POLICE COMPLEX - CHASE'S OFFICE 164
text: Comfortable. Well appointed. Degrees on the walls.
text: Chase opens her door to Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Mr. Wayne. Chase Meridian.
text: The sparks he felt from her as Batman don't fly.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: How can I help you, Mr. Wayne?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Somebody's been sending me love
dialog: letters. Commissioner Gordon thought
dialog: you might give me your expert
dialog: opinion.
text: Chase spread the `Riddler' letters before her. Bruce
text: TAPS his fingers absentmindedly as he watches her read.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Psychiatrists make you nervous?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Just ones this beautiful.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: The infamous Wayne charm. Does it
dialog: ever shut off?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: On occasion. Usually at night.
text: Bruce stops tapping, examines books on aberrant behavior.
text: The Dark Side. Turns a tiny wicker doll over in his hand.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Still play with dolls, Doctor?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: She's a Malaysian dream warden. She
dialog: stands sentry while you sleep and
dialog: calms your dreams.
dialog: (off Bruce's expressions)
dialog: Need one?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Me? No. Only things that need
dialog: calming in my dreams are the
dialog: Rockettes.
text: Chase holds his eyes a beat. Not buying. But she lets it
text: go, looks back over the letters.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: My opinion. This letter writer is a
dialog: total wacko.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Wacko? That a technical term?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Patient apparently suffers from
dialog: acute obsessional syndrome with
dialog: potential homicidal styles. Work
dialog: better for you?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: So what you're saying, this guy's a
dialog: total wacko, right?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (a slight smile)
dialog: Exactly.
text: He notices batman research on her desk. Spots a framed
text: print hanging on the wall. A bat.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You have a thing for bats?
text: Chase follows his gaze.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: That's a rorschach, Mr. Wayne.
dialog: People see what they want to.
text: Bruce looks back up. In fact, just an ink blot. Only he
text: saw a bat within it's bleeding lines.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I think the question would be, do
dialog: you have a thing for bats?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: So, this Riddler, he's dangerous?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What do you know about obsession?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Not much.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Obsession is born of fear. Recall a
dialog: moment of great terror in your life.
dialog: Say you associate that moment
dialog: with...
dialog: (random)
text: ...a bat. The bat's image becomes a
dialog: cancer of the mind, grows more real
dialog: than your daily life. Can you
dialog: imagine something like that?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's a stretch but I'll manage.
speaker_heading: CHASE
text: The letter writer is obsessed with
dialog: you. His only escape may be...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: To kill me.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You understand obsession better than
dialog: you let on.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: No insights here, doc. Just trying
dialog: to get comfortable on your couch.
dialog: (checking his watch)
dialog: Oops. Times up.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: That's usually my line.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Look, I'd love to keep chatting-
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Would you? I'm not so sure.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: But I'm going to have to get you out
dialog: of those clothes.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Excuse me.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: And into a black dress.
text: Bruce throws her startled expression his best smile.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Tell me, Doctor, do you like the
dialog: circus?
text: Despite herself, Chase smiles back.
scene_heading: 165 A SIGN - CLOSE - Gotham Hospital Charity Circus.
speaker_heading: WIDER
scene_heading: 166 EXT. HIPPODROME - NIGHT 166
text: Immense. On the lapping edge of Gotham Harbor.
text: Searchlights sweep the sky. FLAGS flutter on the
text: Hippodrome's oval roof, Limos spill Gotham's finest. The
dialog: night of the season.
scene_heading: 167 INT. CENTER RING 167
text: THE FLYING GRAYSONS -- Mother, Father, and two sons all
text: wearing colorful red and green outfits with yellow cape-
text: -- race out to greet the crowd. They discard their capes,
text: cartwheel to four guywires.
speaker_heading: RINGMASTER
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen. Seventy feet
text: above the ground, performing feats
dialog: of aerial skill without a net, the
dialog: Flying Graysons!
text: The lights dim. Spots follow each Grayson as hoist cables
text: whisk them up to the trapezes and high wire.
scene_heading: 168 ON THE TRAPEZE 168
text: Dad and Chris Grayson hang by their knees, upside down on
text: opposite trapezes.
text: 169 Mom jumps to Chris' hands, hangs in mid-air. Chris swings 169
text: back and forth, building momentum, then sends her to Dad
text: in a poetic double somersault.
speaker_heading: 170 BELOW 170
text: The Hippodrome is packed solid.
speaker_heading: 171 VIP SECTION 171
text: Bruce and Chase in evening finery take their seats amidst
text: a barrage of flashing photographers. The Gotham Society
text: matrons crowd for a photo op.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (off the flashes)
dialog: I'm surprised you aren't blind by
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (as if he were)
dialog: I'm sorry. Who are you?
text: Chase smiles. The Press and Matrons disappear.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Now we can just sit back and watch
dialog: the show like normal folks.
speaker_heading: RINGMASTER (OVER)
dialog: Tonight's benefit has raised
dialog: $375,000 for Gotham Children's
dialog: Hospital. Let's thank our largest
dialog: single donor: Bruce Wayne.
text: SPOTLIGHT finds Bruce and Chase. WILD APPLAUSE.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (through her smile)
dialog: Like normal folks.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (deadpan)
dialog: What? This isn't normal?
speaker_heading: 172 RINGMASTER 172
dialog: And now Richard, the youngest Flying
dialog: Grayson, will perform The _Quadruple_
dialog: Flying Somersault!
text: 173 DICK GRAYSON, handsome, only happy when he is in flight, 173
text: jumps to his father's hands, hangs in air.
text: 174 DICK'S POV - The world flips, dizzying, four times. 174
text: 175 Chris catches Dick's hands. Shaky. One hand slips free. 175
text: The Crowd GASPS. Dick dangles for an instant.
text: 176 Chris hoists Dick to safety. An uproarious OVATION! 176
text: 177 CHASE watches Bruce. He's riveted, eyes like a child's. 177
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: That kid is amazing.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I don't get you Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Me? I'm easy. Especially after a
text: couple of martinis.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: The glib, cavalier routine, it
dialog: really is an act, isn't it?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Don't believe it. I'm just skin
dialog: deep.
text: But he holds her eyes and in the smile that passes
text: between them, sweet electricity. Maybe something more.
text: 178 THE RINGMASTER stands watching the Graysons feats of 178
text: aerial wonder. Something catches his eye.
text: 179 A GLOVED HAND extends through the curtain leading 179
text: backstage, beckons him with a single finger.
text: 180 THE RINGMASTER - CLOSE. Puzzled. Steps out of the ring. 180
scene_heading: 181 BACK TO BRUCE AND CHASE 181
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Look, I'm rock climbing Sunday. How
dialog: about coming along?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Bruce, much to my surprise, you seem
dialog: like a really great guy...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: But...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Well, I met someone...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Fast work. You just moved here.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You could say he kind of dropped out
dialog: of the sky and bang-. I think he
dialog: felt it too.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He sure did.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (awkward)
dialog: I said I'm sure he did.
text: Bruce looks towards...
speaker_heading: 182 CENTER RING 182
text: A TINY CAR, horn HONKING away, ROARS into the middle ring
text: and begins dislodging clowns, all tumbling out of the
text: cars and over each other.
text: 183 A new Ringmaster steps into the arena. Two-Face. 183
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen, and I do use
dialog: the term loosely, your attentions
dialog: please. Tonight, a new act for your
dialog: amusement. We call it Massacre Under
dialog: the Big Top.
text: 184 His thugs slip out of their clown costumes and seal every 184
dialog: exit.
text: 185 They pull machine guns and start SHOOTING over the 185
text: audience's heads. PANIC. SCREAMS.
speaker_heading: 186 TWO-FACE 186
dialog: People, people. Show some grace
text: under pressure. A little decorum,
dialog: please.
dialog: (into his mike)
dialog: _SHUT UP_!!!
text: 187 More machine gun BURSTS as Thugs move into sentry 187
text: positions at each section of bleachers. Folks quiet.
speaker_heading: 188 TWO-FACE 188
dialog: If we may direct your attention...
text: 189/90 A Thug trains a spot on a crate hung in the rafters. 189/90
speaker_heading: 191 TWO-FACE 191
dialog: Inside that wooden box: two hundred
text: sticks of TNT.
dialog: (showing a box)
text: In our hand: a radio detonator.
text: Two-Face presses a button.
scene_heading: 192 DETONATOR - CLOSE. A digital countdown. 3:00. 2:59. 2:58... 192
speaker_heading: 193 TWO-FACE 193
dialog: You have three minutes.
speaker_heading: 194 THE MAYOR 194
dialog: What the hell do you want?
speaker_heading: 195 TWO-FACE 195
dialog: Want, Mr. Mayor? Just one little
text: thing. Batman. Bruised. Broken.
text: Bleeding. In a word: dead.
text: Two-Face turns, showing his good side.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Who do we have assembled before us?
dialog: Gotham's finest. Rich, Influential.
dialog: Smart. One of you must know who
dialog: Batman is. Hell, we'd lay odds one
dialog: of you _is_ Batman.
text: Two-Face spins, offers his evil side.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: So, unless the bat is surrendered to
dialog: us post haste, we're off on a
text: proverbial killing spree. City wide
text: mayhem and murder. Starting tonight.
dialog: With all you lovely folks as our
dialog: very first corpses to be. You have
dialog: three ---well just under three---
dialog: minutes.
text: 196 BRUCE, his eyes riveted on the bomb. No secret is worth 196
text: innocent lives. He stands.
text: Chase, misunderstanding, tries to pull Bruce back down.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Suddenly everyone jumps up, SHOUT and SCREAM, point
text: towards the rafters.
speaker_heading: 197 REVERSE ANGLE 197
text: The Graysons scale the scaffolding, heading for the bomb.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Boys! Move, move, move!
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Cannot get good help these days.
text: 198 Any Thugs not standing sentry fan out, speed up guywires. 198
speaker_heading: 199 CHRIS 199
dialog: (to Dick)
dialog: Go! We'll hold them off!
text: Mom, Dad and Chris swing from trapeze to guywire to
text: platform, trying to delay the Thugs who are actually
text: well-trained gymnasts.
text: 200 Dick launches himself from trapeze to trapeze, bounces 200
text: off the high wire, grabs a catwalk and hoists himself up.
text: 201 Bruce uses the distraction to hop the rail, race through 201
text: the SCREAMING CROWD.
scene_heading: 202 THE TIME - CLOSE. 1:03. 1:02. 1:01. 202
scene_heading: 203 ON THE TRAPEZE 203
text: 204 A Thug grabs Dad Grayson by the leg. Dad manages a jump 204
text: to another trapeze.
text: 205 Mom's not so lucky. A Thug punches her off the uppermost 205
text: platform. She falls in mid-air.
text: 206 FOLKS in the audience SCREAM. 206
text: 207 BRUCE moves fast towards one of the sentry Thugs. 207
text: 208 MOM snags a wildly swinging trapeze with one leg, wraps 208
text: her ankle around a rope, hanging over the floor.
text: 209 A THUG points to the Time Clock 0:45. 0:44. 0:43. 209
text: 210 THE THUGS quit the fight, slide down ropes and guywires. 210
text: 211 DAD AND CHRIS form a human chain to reach Mom. Dad 211
text: anchors Chris who swings out towards Mom. Mom swings her
text: trapeze to gather momentum.
scene_heading: 212 IN THE RAFTERS 212
text: Dick has reached the Bomb. Begins un-lashing the crate.
scene_heading: 213 ON THE CIRCUS FLOOR 213
text: The Thugs begin to pour through the trap door. A few
text: thrill-seekers fire their MACHINE GUNS over the crowd.
scene_heading: 214 THE TIMER - CLOSE. 0:15. 0:14. 0:13. 214
text: 215 DICK scales a service ladder, vies with a roof hatch. 215
scene_heading: 216 TRAPEZE - CLOSE 216
text: Dan and Chris make their final swing. Mom lets go and
text: sails gloriously towards Chris. Below them, no net.
text: 217 BRUCE taps the watching Thug on the shoulder. He spins. 217
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Show's over.
text: A punch and the guy is out. Bruce starts for Two-Face.
text: Another Thug springs up before him, blocking his way.
text: 218 TWO-FACE stares up at the dangling Graysons. He reaches 218
text: into his pocket. Pulls out a familiar coin.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Day in, day out, it always comes
dialog: down to the same old question.
dialog: Life...
dialog: (flips the coin)
dialog: Or death.
text: He looks down. Scarred side up. He draws his gun.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Our kinda day.
text: 219 BRUCE fells the other Thug. Starts to sprint across the 219
text: ring towards Two-Face.
scene_heading: 220 AT THE ROOF 220
text: Dick shoves the hatch open, climbs out.
scene_heading: 221 TIMER - CLOSE. 0:10. 0:09. 0:08. 221
text: 222 MOM spots the pointing gun far below. She SCREAMS. 222
text: 223 BRUCE races for the aiming Two-Face. Almost there. 223
text: Another Thug hits him broadside, knocking him flat.
text: 224 TWO-FACE FIRES. Twice, the first bullet cutting, the 224
text: 225 second severing the rope that holds the Graysons. 225
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Never did like the circus. Too many
dialog: freaks.
text: 226/27 Two-Face disappears down the tunnel. Bruce struggles 226/27
text: to his feet. A CHARGE blows inside the escape hatch,
text: filling the access-way with fire. No way out.
scene_heading: 228 CLOCK - CLOSE. 0:07. 0:06. 228
scene_heading: 229 EXT. HIPPODROME ROOF - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 229
text: Dick scrambles onto the roof, begins whipping the bomb
text: rope like a sling.
scene_heading: 230 INT. HIPPODROME - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 230
scene_heading: CLOCK - CLOSE. 0:05. 0:04. 0:03.
scene_heading: 231 EXT. HIPPODROME ROOF - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 231
text: Dick let's fly, the bomb soaring out towards the harbor.
text: 232 THE BOMB hits the water. Sinks. A beat. The night is 232
text: split by a funneling EXPLOSION.
scene_heading: 233 INT. HIPPODROME - NIGHT 233
text: Dick swings excitedly down onto the catwalk. He freezes
text: at the rail.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: No!!!!
text: DICK - CLOSE. On his face, his life's end.
scene_heading: 234 DICK'S POV -- STRAIGHT DOWN 234
text: The dead bodies of his mother, father and brother. Bruce
text: Wayne stands over them, looking up at the boy.
text: 235 BRUCE - CLOSE. His face a tragic echo of Dick's pain. 235
scene_heading: 236 EXT. - WAYNE MANOR - NEXT AFTERNOON 236
text: A police car heads towards the manor. Dick Grayson, pack
text: on his back, winds his motorcycle behind the cruiser.
text: Bruce comes out to greet Gordon. Dick, slightly
text: awestruck, dismounts, wanders into the house.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: It's good of you to take him in.
dialog: He's been filling out forms all day.
text: He hasn't even eaten.
text: Bruce nods, watches Gordon drive off. Heads into...
scene_heading: 237 INT. WAYNE MANOR FOYER - LATE DAY 237
text: As Bruce ENTERS through the open door, Alfred arrives
text: from the other direction.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Welcome, Master Grayson. I'm Alfred.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: How ya doin', Al?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (mouthing)
dialog: Al?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (to Bruce)
dialog: Big house. How many rooms?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Gee, I'm not sure.
dialog: (across the foyer)
dialog: Alfred? How many rooms? Total?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Ninety-three, including the sauna.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Take any three you like. After you
dialog: get settled we can...
text: 238/39 But Dick isn't listening, stares instead over 238/39
text: Bruce's shoulder as Gordon's cruiser disappears out of
dialog: sight.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Okay. I'm outta here.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Excuse me.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I figure telling that cop I'd stay
dialog: here saved me a truckload of social
dialog: service interviews and good will. So
dialog: no offense but thanks. See ya.
text: Dick heads toward the door. Alfred slips away.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Where will you go? The circus is
text: halfway to Metropolis by now.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I got no place at the circus without
dialog: my family. I'm going to get a fix on
dialog: Two-Face. Then I'm going to kill
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Listen, Dick. Killing Two-Face won't
dialog: take the pain away. It'll make it
dialog: worse.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Look, spare me the sermons, okay.
dialog: You're just some rich guy who is
dialog: trying to do a good deed. You don't
dialog: even know me.
text: Bruce stares beyond Dick, into his own past.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's not just the sadness. Is it?
dialog: The shame is worse. Feeling like
dialog: somehow you should have saved them.
text: Dick is looking at Bruce now.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You're right. I don't know you. But
dialog: I'm like you.
text: Just then Alfred returns with a tray. Rare London broil.
text: Baby potatoes. Fresh greens. An aromatic feast.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Oh, is the young master leaving?
dialog: Pity. I'll just toss this away then.
dialog: Perhaps the dogs are hungry -
text: Alfred turns, heads up the stairs.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'll set this up in the guest suite.
dialog: Just in case.
text: Dick follows, led by his nose.
text: Bruce smiles, nods slowly, heads into...
scene_heading: 240 INT. - WAYNE LIBRARY 240
text: Bruce touches a vase of fresh roses. Stares at framed
text: photos of Thomas, Martha, of himself, younger. Happy.
dialog: With no knowledge of the future.
text: 241 He turns. Suddenly their coffins are in the middle of the 241
text: room again, the still corpses white in death. He's a
dialog: boy.
text: There on the desk. A leather bound book. (OVER) THUNDER
text: CRACKS.
text: 242 THE FRONT DOOR flies open. An evil wind whips the house. 242
text: 243 THE BOOK is splattered with blood. 243
text: 244 THE WINDOW explodes, shattering glass, and out of the 244
text: darkness flies a huge, evil bat.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (OVER)
dialog: Master Bruce?
text: 245 Bruce is sitting in a chair, holding a rose, head down, 245
text: the images only flashes of memory. Night has fallen. He
text: looks up, eyes. red.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's happening again. Just like my
text: parents. A monster comes out of the
text: night. A scream. Two gunshots. I
dialog: killed them.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What did you say?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He killed them. Two-Face. He
dialog: slaughtered that boy's parents.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No. You said I. I killed them.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Don't be ridiculous.
text: Suddenly a pale light through the window illuminates the
text: room, bathes their faces.
text: 246 THE BATSIGNAL beams in the sky. 246
scene_heading: 247 INT. GUEST (DICK'S) BEDROOM 247
text: Dick Grayson finishes eating. He moves into the
speaker_heading: 248 HALLWAY 248
text: the house seems empty.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Hey?.. Hello?... Anybody home?
text: He's puzzled.
scene_heading: 249 EXT. GOTHAM CITY STREET - NIGHT 249
text: Batman speeds along in the Batmobile. He hits top speed
text: as the car's fusion drive glows red.
text: 250 A giant projector, beaming the Batsignal on the fast
text: night clouds. Batman leaps from a neighboring roof to
text: find no one. Just the huge light and the city wind.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Commissioner...?
text: A shadow appears from behind the searchlight. Chase.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: He's home. I sent the signal.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Last night at the circus. I noticed
dialog: something about Dent. His coin. He's
dialog: obsessed with justice. It's his
dialog: Achilles' heel. It can be exploited.
text: He steps close to her. Intimidating.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You called me here for this? The
text: Batsignal is not a beeper.
text: Instead of backing off, Chase moves towards him.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I wish I could say my interest in
dialog: you was purely professional...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Are you trying to get under my cape,
dialog: Doctor?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: A girl cannot live by psychoses
dialog: alone.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: It's the car, right? Chicks love the
dialog: car.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What is it about the wrong kind of
dialog: man? In grade school it was guys
dialog: with earrings. College, motorcycles
text: and leather jackets.
text: Chase is right up against him. She runs her fingers along
text: the outline of Batman's mask.
speaker_heading: CHASE
text: Now black rubber.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Try a fireman. Less to take off.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I don't mind the work. Pity I can't
text: see behind the mask.
text: Batman stills her hand.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: We all wear masks.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: My life's an open book. You read?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm not the kind of guy who blends
text: in at a family picnic.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: We could give it a try. I'll bring
dialog: the wine, you bring the scarred
dialog: psyche.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You are direct, aren't you?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You like strong women. I've done my
dialog: homework. Or do I need skin-tight
dialog: vinyl and a whip?
text: Their bodies are close.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I haven't had much luck with
dialog: women...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Maybe you just haven't met the right
dialog: woman...
text: Their mouths are close. Suddenly Commissioner Gordon,
text: trench-coat over pajamas, rushes onto the roof.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I saw the beacon. What's going on?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Nothing... False alarm.
text: 251 Batman shoots a Batarang into the night and dives from 251
dialog: the building.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Are you sure?
scene_heading: 252 EXT. SEEDY PART OF TOWN - DAY 252
text: SIRENS WHINE as two cruisers fly down a pot-holed street.
scene_heading: 253 ANGLE ON - A bridge structure. 253
scene_heading: 254 INT. TWO-FACE'S HIDEOUT - DAY 254
text: The room is dark. POLICE SIRENS FADE as a trap door opens
text: in the floor. Two-Face emerges.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Ever have one of those days where
dialog: you just want to kill someone?
scene_heading: VOICE IN THE DARK
dialog: Riddle me this. (Riddle #3)
speaker_heading: REVERSE ANGLE
text: A mysterious silhouette stands in the dark.
text: Two-Face draws his gun.
scene_heading: VOICE IN THE DARK
dialog: The answer is, your enemy.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Who are you?
scene_heading: VOICE IN THE DARK
dialog: You can just call me... The Riddler.
text: The figure steps out of shadow. A new costume, lime
text: green, covered with question marks, an emerald eye mask,
text: derby and cane. An exact replica of the Guesser's outfit.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: How'd you find us?
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: You _are_ Two-Face, you would need to
text: face both rivers, both uptown and
text: downtown simultaneously. Only one
dialog: spot in Gotham serves these bi-
dialog: zonal, bi-coastal needs...
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Congratulations. You get to die on
dialog: the dean's list.
text: Two-Face trains his gun, COCKS the trigger.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Has anyone ever told you have a
dialog: serious impulse control problem?
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: You know, I simply love what you've
dialog: done with this place. Heavy Metal
dialog: with just a touch of House and
dialog: Garden.
text: He crosses to Leatherland.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: It's so dark and Gothic and
dialog: disgustingly decadent...
text: He moves to Laceland.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
text: Yet so bright and chipper and
dialog: conservative!
dialog: (to "bad" side)
dialog: It's so you.
dialog: ("good" side)
dialog: And yet so _you_!
dialog: (touching his suit)
dialog: Very few people are both a summer
dialog: _and_ a winter. But you pull it off
dialog: nicely.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: A man with a death wish.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Harvey. You need me. Since you've
dialog: gotten out of Arkham, you've
dialog: managed, what? To bungle stealing a
dialog: safe? Wreck a statue? And, correct
dialog: me if I'm wrong here, but weren't
dialog: you outsmarted by an acned acrobat
dialog: at the circus?
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Let's see if you bleed green.
text: Two-Face COCKS back the hammer.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Alright, counselor. Go ahead. Fire
dialog: away. But before you do, let me ask
dialog: you one question. Is it really me
dialog: you want to kill?
text: The Riddler knits his thumbs together, waves his hands
text: over one of the exposed light bulbs that illuminate the
text: room, making a shadow on the wall. The shadow of a bat.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Do you know about hate, my dual
dialog: visaged friend? Slow, burning hate
dialog: that keeps you sleepless until late
dialog: in the night, that wakes you before
dialog: dawn. Do you know that kind of hate?
dialog: I do.
dialog: (circling Harvey)
dialog: Kill him? Seems like a good enough
dialog: idea. But have you thought it
dialog: through? A few bullets, a quick
text: spray of blood, a fast, thrilling
dialog: rush, and then what? Wet hands and
dialog: post-coital depression. Is it really
dialog: enough?
dialog: (up close)
dialog: Why not ruin him first? Expose his
text: frailty. And then, when he is at his
dialog: weakest, crush him in your hand.
text: 255 Riddler gestures to the front of the room, where Leather 255
text: and Lace, on their respective sides, are fixed to their
text: TV's via the green beam of the box.
text: He tosses a receiver electrode to Two-Face.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: ...Take a hit.
text: Two-Face looks at the electrode curiously.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (taps his forehead)
dialog: Up, up, up.
text: A beat. Then, gun still trained on the Riddler, Two-Face
text: holds the receiver to his skull. He's blasted with a dose
text: of Leather and Lace's neural energy.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Holy shit.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: So not everyone can be a poet.
dialog: Still, I respect the sentiment.
text: Riddler waves his hand in front of the girls' eyes. No
text: response. Definitely zoned.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (to the girls)
dialog: This is your brain on the box.
dialog: (off Harvey)
dialog: This is your brain on their brain.
text: He plants an electrode on his own forehead.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: This is my brain on your brain on
dialog: their brain. Does anybody else feel
dialog: like a fried egg?
text: The Riddler grabs Two-Face's receiver.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: No. Wait...
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Addictive isn't it? Just Say No.
dialog: Until I say yes. A little fringe
dialog: benefit of working with me. Now
dialog: here's the concept, counselor.
dialog: Crime. My I.Q., your AK-47. You help
dialog: me gather production capital so I
dialog: can produce enough of these
dialog: (pulling a Box from his vest)
dialog: to create an empire that will
dialog: eclipse Bruce Wayne's forever. And,
dialog: in return I will help you solve the
dialog: greatest riddle of all. Who is
dialog: Batman?
text: Two-Face eyes The Riddler, interest dawning in his eyes.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You are a very strange person. You
dialog: speak as if we are old friends,
dialog: which we are not. You barge in here
dialog: unarmed when it is clearly suicidal
text: to do so. Still, an intriguing
dialog: proposition.
dialog: (pulling his coin)
dialog: Heads: we take your offer.
text: He rests the barrel on The Riddler's temple.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Tails: we blow your _goddamned head
dialog: off_!
scene_heading: 256 FOLLOW THE COIN 256
text: as Two-Face FLIPS it high in the air... SPINNING...
scene_heading: 257 INT. JEWELRY EXCHANGE 257
text: Thugs grab handfuls of gems as a Guard presses the ALARM
text: BUTTON. LOONY TOONS and MERRIE MELODIES THEMES play as
text: Riddler's animated face fills the surveillance screens.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: The Riddler and Two-Face stand over a palette of black
text: jeweler's felt. Littered with bright, sparkling diamonds.
text: The Riddler slips on a monocle, lifts a stone.
text: Two-Face grabs the entire palette, pours the diamonds
text: into a loot bag, heads towards another counter.
scene_heading: 258 INT. BATMOBILE - MOVING 258
text: WINDSCREEN - CLOSE. A flashing message: Crime In Progress.
text: 259 An ever changing tactical map shows Batman's narrowing 259
text: proximity to the crime site.
scene_heading: 260 EXT. STREET 260
text: The Batmobile rushes to a halt. Batman leaps out, SMASHES
text: through a door into...
scene_heading: 261 INT. BEAUTY SALON 261
text: ...Girls LAUGH and flirt. Even behind his mask, Batman
text: fumes. Obviously misled.
scene_heading: 262 INT. WAYNE MANOR - BRUCE'S BEDROOM - DAY 262
text: Bruce sits watching the news.
speaker_heading: ANCHOR
dialog: ...working with Two-Face, Gotham's
dialog: new criminal mastermind is calling
dialog: himself The Riddler. Twenty million
dialog: in diamonds were stolen yesterday
text: with no sign of Batman.
text: 263 SCREEN - CLOSE. Changes. Edward stands on the Claw Island. 263
text: A small abandoned island in Gotham Harbor.
speaker_heading: ANCHOR
dialog: In other news, entrepreneur Edward
dialog: Nygma has signed a lease for Claw
dialog: Island. Nygma says he plans to break
dialog: ground on an electronics plant....
scene_heading: 264 EXT. ARMORED TRUCK BASE 264
text: Armored trucks sit open on the street. Two-toned thugs
text: carry out bags of loot.
text: Two-Face and the Riddler stand before four guards, each
text: sentry held captive by a two-toned crony.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Close your fist. Reach back.
text: Two-Face swings, clocks the guard on the chin. CRACK. Out
text: like a light.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Get it?
text: Riddler nods tentatively. Manages a weak fist. Throws a
text: feeble punch. The Guard looks barely startled.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Riddler. You punch like a girl. Put
dialog: some heart into it.
text: Two-Face hauls off, hits the third Guard. Out he goes.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Okay. Okay. I got it.
text: He leans way back, tries again. Barely a glancing blow.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: My God.
text: He walks away, shaking his head, disgusted. The Riddler
text: turns back to the guard. Ready for another try.
scene_heading: 265 INT. WAYNE MANOR - HALLWAY 265
scene_heading: 266 NEWSPAPER - CLOSE. RIDDLER & TWO-FACE TERRORIZE GOTHAM. 266
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
text: Alfred, newspaper in hand, finds Dick trying to open the
text: door which leads to the Bat Cave.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: May I help you, Master Grayson?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: How come this is the only locked
dialog: door around this museum? What's back
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Master Wayne's dead wives.
text: Dick grins. Alfred watches him go, a wry smile on his
text: face. The coast now clear, he disappears into the secret
dialog: doorway.
speaker_heading: 267 WIDER 267
text: Dick stands hidden in an alcove, watching.
scene_heading: 268 EXT. CLAW ISLAND - DAY 268
text: Tremendous construction in progress.
scene_heading: 269 INT. CLAW ISLAND 269
text: Silhouettes of robot arms manufacture the Box.
text: Edward watches on, giving Two-Face a quick hit from a
text: glowing electrode, then snatches back the receiver.
text: Harvey eyes the electrode with an addict's hungry eyes.
scene_heading: 270 EXT. GOTHAM LOADING DOCK 270
text: Two-Face and Thugs steal priceless paintings while the
text: Guards sit bound and gagged in their booth.
text: Riddler stares up at a freshly spray-painted (RIDDLE #4)
text: on the boat's hull.
scene_heading: 271 INT. WAYNE MANOR - LAUNDRY ROOM 271
text: Dick stands watching TV while he washes and dries his
text: clothes using martial arts techniques.
speaker_heading: 272 VONDELLE (ON SCREEN) 272
dialog: Has Batman lost his touch? We've
dialog: become a city of sissies crying
text: Batman, Batman, Batman at the first
text: sign of trouble.
scene_heading: 273 INT. GOTHAM OPERA - NIGHT 273
text: The Barber of Seville is in full swing. As the bejewelled
text: audience watches, the translation is being spelled out
text: for them on a large electronic screen over the stage.
speaker_heading: 274 BACKSTAGE 274
text: Green gloved hands attach a Box to the translator.
speaker_heading: 275 AUDIENCE 275
text: The familiar green beam of The Box transfixes the
text: audience and the performers. Two-Face and his Thugs take
text: the balcony in protective green sunglasses, strip folks
dialog: of their cash and jewels.
text: 276 The Riddler stands on stage. 276
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: I just love a captive audience.
text: He picks up the ARIA A-CAPELLA, races through the stunned
text: orchestra, collecting valuables.
text: As he goes, he moves the mouths of his victims, turning
text: the robbery into an opera of his own.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Oh, but all I want is to take all
dialog: your jewels oh oh.
dialog: (moving a woman's mouth)
dialog: No, oh you villain don't take my
dialog: jewels, oh no.
dialog: (singing back)
dialog: I will.
dialog: (a man's mouth)
dialog: No you won't.
dialog: (singing)
dialog: I will.
dialog: (another man)
dialog: No you won't.
text: 277 Still SINGING, he leaps back onto the stage where Harvey 277
text: and his Thugs arrive, bags full of loot. Riddler plays
text: tiny hidden buttons in his cane, directing Batman.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Where are you sending Batboy this time?
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Here. Get a good seat.
text: 278 OUT THE WINDOW 278
text: The Batmobile makes a quick stop before the opera house.
text: 279 Riddler, Two-Face and Thugs disappear just as...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: drops to the Stage from the ceiling. He looks around at
text: the stunned audience.
text: He spots a small box with a question mark on it sitting
text: center stage. Lifts the top. Within, a pair of plastic
text: hands applaud him.
text: 280 THE TRANSLATOR - CLOSE. Vaporizes, the beam snapping off. 280
speaker_heading: 281 THE AUDIENCE 281
text: startled by Batman's sudden appearance on stage, starts
text: LAUGHING. Until someone notices her tiara is missing. A
text: SCREAM. The first of many.
scene_heading: 282 EXT. GOTHAM TIMES BUILDING - NIGHT 282
scene_heading: Electronic headlines circles- BAT FLOPS AT OPERA. RIDDLER
scene_heading: AND TWO-FACE STEAL MILLIONS.
scene_heading: 283 EXT. NYGMATECH HEADQUARTERS - CLAW ISLAND - DAY 283
text: Finally complete. In the b.g. a giant corporate sign
text: reading NYGMATECH is raised by cranes.
text: Edward Nygma, dressed like Bruce Wayne to the smallest
text: detail, stands on a podium, giving a press conference.
text: Scores of APPLAUDING Employees and Media watch on. The
dialog: Gotham Society Matrons COO.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (OVER)
dialog: Why sit back when you can be part of
dialog: the show?
scene_heading: 284 QUICK CUTS OF NEWSPAPERS 284
speaker_heading: EDWARD (OVER)
dialog: ...Nygmatech brings the joy 3-D
dialog: entertainment into your own home.
text: 285 CUTS OF MAGAZINES all proclaiming Edward as the new King 285
dialog: of Electronics in Gotham City.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell
dialog: you my vision for the future. "The
dialog: Box" in every home in America. And
text: one day, the world.
scene_heading: 286 EXT. GOTHAM CITY - MONTAGE 286
text: A tenement, where a poor family scrapes together their
text: savings on a newspaper ad for "The Box"....
text: 287 An electronics store, where Alfred, at the head of a long 287
text: line, hands over a check to receive "The Box"...
text: 288 A resplendent household where husband, wife, and kids 288
text: each watch individual TV's connected to their own Boxes.
scene_heading: 289 INT. NYGMATECH - RIDDLER'S CONTROL ROOM 289
text: Riddler sits atop a tremendous electronic throne, facing
text: a wall bank of TV monitors all running newsreel footage
text: of folks using "The Box". From overhead, a giant diode
text: delivers massive pulses of glowing neural energy.
text: 290 RIDDLER'S HEAD - CLOSE. His brain is growing. 290
scene_heading: 291 EXT. ELECTRONIC STORES 291
text: Crowds of people line up. Some stores say "SOLD OUT"
dialog: others "YES, WE HAVE `THE BOX'."
scene_heading: 292 INT. BATCAVE 292
text: Bruce stands over the Batcomputer.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Riddler and Two-Face are tweaking
text: the data before the computer pulls
text: it off the emergency bands.
text: Alfred stands in his lab area, trying to disassemble "The
text: Box". He gets the lid off.
text: 293 BOX - CLOSE. The circuitry inside automatically vaporizes. 293
scene_heading: 294 INT. NYGMATECH - EDWARD'S CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT 294
text: Leather and Lace sit with the Riddler and Two-Face as the
text: two villains pass an electrode between them.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Sure, E = MC squared. Until you
dialog: factor in more than three
dialog: dimensions. Then... Damn. Hit us
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Haven't you had enough? Don't Think
dialog: And Drive.
text: Harvey waves his revolver in Riddler's face.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Be my guest.
text: Two-Face and Leather and Lace take another hit of the
text: glowing neural energy. Smiles.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Our Paleolithic yearnings are best
dialog: expressed in a pre-linguistic-
dialog: (off the befuddled girls)
dialog: Sorry. Just thinking out loud.
text: Harvey leans back, buzzed, the electrode slipping from
text: his hand. Leather grabs for it. Not fast enough. Riddler
text: snatches it away.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (to Leather)
dialog: Not until you do that thing I like.
dialog: (taking a hit)
dialog: On se tue pour des mesnonges. J'ai
dialog: gache ma vie...
dialog: (off the electrode)
dialog: Woah. Harsh toke.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Don't bogart that 'trode.
text: He tosses Harv the electrode over Lace's ill-timed grab.
text: Harvey takes a hit.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: (epiphanous)
dialog: Oh my God. Jim Morrison was right.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Everything.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER & TWO-FACE
dialog: (simultaneous)
dialog: ...Yeah.
scene_heading: 295 INT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY 295
speaker_heading: TV - CLOSE.
text: Vondelle stands before the familiar panel of experts.
speaker_heading: AIMS
dialog: This Box is nothing more than an
dialog: electronic narcotic.
speaker_heading: ROYCE
dialog: Thousands more Gothamites each day
dialog: are tuning out by tuning in to its
text: holographic fantasies.
speaker_heading: AIMS
dialog: It's turning citizens into
dialog: zombies...
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: Gripe, gripe, gripe. Isn't this what
dialog: they said about TV? I think "The
dialog: Box" is the future. What's your
dialog: opinion? I want to know...
text: 296 FAVOR Alfred as he shuts off the set, moves into the 296
text: 297 hallway and the locked door to the Batcave. 297
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Master Dick?
text: High above, Dick appears on the third floor landing.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Up here, Al.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Just checking, young sir.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Four seconds from...
text: Below, Alfred opens the door.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Now!
text: Alfred disappears inside and the door begins to close.
text: Dick leaps the bannister, grabs the chandelier, swings to
text: a large tapestry, slides down and into the passageway as
text: the door SLAMS shut.
scene_heading: 298 INT. SECRET HALL 298
text: Unable to stop, Dick barrels through a dark doorway,
text: tumbles down the long stairway onto
scene_heading: 299 THE BATCAVE FLOOR 299
text: Alfred stands in his lab area. The two stare at each
text: other in utter disbelief.
scene_heading: 300 INT. CHASE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 300
text: Big. Open. A life still in boxes. The door opens,
dialog: producing Bruce and Chase.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The style of the letters I'm getting
dialog: matches those found at the crime
dialog: sites. Why would The Riddler be
dialog: sending me riddles?
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Who's your decorator? U-Haul?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Sorry. I haven't even had time to
dialog: unpack. Instant coffee okay?
text: Chase disappears into the kitchen as Bruce takes off his
text: coat. She reappears with a small box. Hands it to Bruce.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What's this?
text: Bruce opens the box. Within, a dream doll.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Call it clinical intuition. I
dialog: thought your dreams might need
dialog: changing.
text: Bruce looks at Chase. He stares out the window a beat,
text: deciding. As he speaks now his words are halting, self
dialog: disclosure difficult for him.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: My parents were murdered. In front
dialog: of me. I was just a kid.
text: Chase nods. She knows.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: A lot of what happened is jagged.
dialog: Pieces missing. I can't really
dialog: remember. I just get flashes.
dialog: Usually in my dreams. I'd kind of
dialog: gotten used to them. At least
dialog: accepted them....
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: And now....
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: They've changed. The dreams, I mean.
dialog: There's a new element I don't
dialog: understand. A book. Black. Covered
dialog: in leather....
text: (OVER) The kettle begins to WHISTLE.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Damn. I'll be right back.
text: Bruce is agitated, starts to looking around. At her desk
text: he finds a virtual shrine to Batman. Pictures.
dialog: Newsphotos. Articles.
speaker_heading: CHASE (OVER)
dialog: Find anything interesting?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Why do I feel like the other man,
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Come on, Bruce. This is what I do
dialog: for a living.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'd say this goes a little beyond
dialog: taking your work home.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What do you want me to say? That I'm
dialog: not attracted to him?
text: 301 She hits a button and on screen newsfootage rolls of 301
text: Batman fighting Catwoman.
speaker_heading: 302 CHASE 302
dialog: (mesmerized)
dialog: Look at the abuse he's taking. He's
dialog: not just fighting criminals. He's
text: punishing himself.
text: Chase hits a button, freezing on Batman's face.
speaker_heading: CHASE
text: It's as if he's paying some great
dialog: penance. What crime could he have
dialog: committed to deserve a life sentence
dialog: of such agony?
text: Bruce hits a key, blanking the screen.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Maybe he just had a lousy childhood,
dialog: is that it Doc?
text: Chase grabs his hand as it comes away from the keyboard.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Why do you do that?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Throw up that ridiculous superficial
dialog: mask. If you're jealous...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm not-
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You want me close but you won't let
dialog: me near. What's the terrible, dark
dialog: secret you're protecting everyone
dialog: from?
text: In the mirror they are half in shadow, half in light.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: In a sense we are all two people.
dialog: The side we show in daylight. And
dialog: that side we keep in shadow.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Rage. Anger. Passion. Pain.
text: He pulls her to him. Their faces are close. A breath
text: apart. Suddenly his watch begins to BEEP.
text: 303/04 Bruce turns over his wrist. Depresses a stud on 303/04
text: his watch. The face turns into a screen.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Sorry to bother you, sir. I have
dialog: some rather distressing news about
dialog: Master Dick.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Is he all right?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm afraid Master Dick has... gone
dialog: traveling.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He ran away?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Actually, he took the car.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He boosted the Jag?
dialog: (relieved)
dialog: Is that all?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Not the Jaguar. The _other_ car.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The _Rolls_?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: _No_, sir. _The_ _other_ _car_!
text: A beat. Then Bruce closes his eyes.
scene_heading: 305 EXT. ARKHAM SQUARE - NIGHT 204
text: Gotham night life. Neon, traffic, sleaze.
text: The Batmobile cruises into the center of the strip.
text: A group of flashy low riders pull in front of the
text: Batmobile. They hydraulic up and down competitively.
text: The Batmobile wipers sweep the windshield. The bat-foil
text: opens and closes. Finally the car hydraulics higher and
text: faster, but a bit wildly, the driver barely in control.
text: 306 The low riders, put to shame, PEEL OUT. (OVER) A SCREAM 306
text: cuts the night. A GIRL runs for her life, chased by SIX
text: GANG MEMBERS into a dark alley.
text: The Batmobile TEARS after her.
scene_heading: 307 EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT 307
text: The Thugs have the Girl surrounded, push her back and
text: forth between them like a rag doll.
text: The Batmobile SCREECHES into the alley. The door slides
text: open. From the smoking hatchway emerges...Dick.
text: Needless to say, this get the Thugs' attention. They let
dialog: go of the girl.
speaker_heading: THUG
dialog: Who the hell are you?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (low, ominous)
dialog: I'm Batman.
dialog: (looking down)
dialog: Damn, did I forget to dress again?
text: The Thugs close. One rushes Dick while another swings a
text: chain at his head. Mistake.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Chains. You don't seem like the
dialog: type.
text: Dick's hand shoots out fast, grabbing the chain. He open
text: palms the Thug in the chin, whips the chain into the gut
dialog: of the other villain.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: The Caped Crusader strikes again.
dialog: Sans cape, of course.
text: Two more rush him.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Another victory for the Dark Knight.
text: Dick goes up with a flying front kick, knocking one down,
text: fells another on the return with a spinning back fist.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (off the unconscious goons)
text: Dark nighty-night.
text: Dick stares at the remaining thug. Smiles.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Is your will up to date?
text: The last Thug takes a look at Dick, turns and races away.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I could definitely get behind this
dialog: super hero gig.
text: Dick nods to the awestruck Girl.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Ma'am.
text: He starts towards the car.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Wait.
text: She moves close.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: You forgot the part where you kiss
dialog: the girl.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: Right.
text: He leans in, happy to oblige when suddenly...
text: (OVER) SCREAMS AND SHOUTS as the Thug who got away comes
text: racing back into the alley, followed by maybe thirty new
text: gang members, all wielding bats and chains.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Uh-oh.
text: He pulls the girl behind him, readies for war.
scene_heading: 308 A DARK FIGURE 308
text: flies out of the night.
text: Batman, on a wire, swings into the group, sending them
text: scattering in all directions. The bad guys race off.
scene_heading: 309 THE BATMOBILE 309
text: REVS UP, races to Batman.
text: 310 Batman lifts Dick by his collar, drops him into the 310
text: passenger seat. Hops into the other side.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Don't you want my number?
text: She watches as the Batmobile speeds away into the night.
scene_heading: 311 INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT - LATER 311
text: Bruce and Dick argue.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I need to be part of this.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Absolutely not.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Me and my brother Chris were putting
dialog: money aside so our folks could
dialog: retire. Dad's knee was going. Chris
dialog: was engaged, you know that? Two-Face
dialog: took...everything. Now I can pay him
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What I do isn't about revenge.
text: Dick glances at a framed headline. The Wayne murders.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Right, slick. Whatever you say.
text: Bruce grabs him. Hard.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: This isn't a game.
text: Dick pushes him off. Harder.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Back off, man.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You don't understand. It's an
dialog: addiction. You fight night after
text: night, trying to fill the emptiness.
text: But the pain's back in the morning.
dialog: And somewhere along the way it stops
dialog: being a choice.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I want better for you.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Save the sermons about how great you
dialog: want my life to be, okay, Bruce? If
dialog: it weren't for Batman my parents
dialog: wouldn't be dead. You don't get it,
dialog: do you? This is all your fault.
text: Dick storms out. Bruce stares after him with tired eyes.
scene_heading: 312 EXT. RITZ GOTHAM HOTEL - NIGHT 312
text: At the marble entrance, the red carpet is rolled out for
text: a pull-out-the-stops party. Over the door, a banner
dialog: proclaims "Nygmatech -- Imagine the Future."
text: At the curb folks dressed in over-the-top runway
text: fashions, pour from luxury cars, hand off keys to a
text: battalion of scurrying valets.
text: Next car up -- Bruce Wayne's Rolls, driven by Alfred. A
text: valet helps Chase out. She looks stunning.
text: Bruce leans over Alfred before stepping out of the car.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Too much wealth. Too fast. Half of
text: Gotham zombied-out. A technology
text: that self destructs. He's protecting
dialog: more than industrial secrets,
dialog: Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I shall be near at hand. Should you
dialog: need me. And sir, I know it's
dialog: difficult but try and have a good
dialog: time.
scene_heading: 313 INT. RITZ GOTHAM ROOF - NIGHT 313
text: Over the top golden glitz. A kind of Versailles meets
text: punk meets couture. And in the middle, Edward, dressed as
dialog: Louis XIV.
text: The room is packed with people sipping exotic cocktails,
text: munching hors d'oeuvres. Conversation BUZZ is high.
dialog: Into this zoo walk Bruce and Chase.
text: As brightly-lighted stations throughout the room, showy
text: displays announce "THE NEW BOX". Pretty, barely-clad
text: showgirls invite partygoers step into various green
text: columns of light.
text: 314 Bruce scans the room as he and Chase pause by the first 314
text: display, where a Socialite steps into a column of energy.
text: She GASPS with delight as she finds herself suddenly
text: dazzling in diamonds from head to toe.
text: 315 They pass the next column where a CHUBBY PROFESSOR, sword 315
text: in hand, fights off a knight on horseback.
text: 316 They pass the next display where a BALD GUY steps into a 316
text: beam. Suddenly, he is in a classic stoner's pad circa
text: 1967. And, best of all, he has long flowing hair.
text: Chase looks amused, Bruce suspicious.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: If I didn't know better, I'd say you
dialog: were sulking.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Keep me off the couch, Doc. Your
dialog: fees are a little rich for me.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Touchy, touchy.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (not biting)
dialog: So how goes your `scholarly' pursuit
dialog: of Batman?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Oh God, Bruce. You're still jealous.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (flaring)
dialog: Spare me the diagnosis, okay? You're
dialog: being ridiculous. I can't be jealous
dialog: of Batman.
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Can I?
scene_heading: 317 ACROSS THE ROOM 317
text: Edward stands flanked by Gotham's Society Matrons as
text: PRESS, including Vondelle Millions, SNAP photos and hurl
dialog: questions.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER
dialog: You're outselling Wayne Enterprises.
dialog: Any comments?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Actually, I'm outselling Wayne Tech
dialog: two to one...
speaker_heading: JOURNALIST
dialog: The Times has named you Gotham's
dialog: bachelor of the year. What do you
dialog: have to say about that?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You might want to ask Bruce Wayne.
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Bruce, old man!
text: 318 Edward crosses the room to greet Chase and Bruce. All 318
text: stand now, surrounded by press and partygoers.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: So glad you could come.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What? Oh, Edward. Hi.
dialog: Congratulations. Great party-
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: The press were just wondering what
dialog: it feels like to be outsold,
text: outclassed, and generally outdone in
dialog: every way...
dialog: (noticing Chase)
dialog: And what light through yonder window
dialog: breaks? `Tis the east. And you
dialog: are...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (charmed)
dialog: Chase?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Of course you are. And what a grand
dialog: pursuit you must be.
dialog: (to Bruce)
dialog: What do you think of my new
dialog: invention?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What? Oh, it's very impressive.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: Gracious even in defeat. How vaguely
dialog: disappointing. When all this could
dialog: have been ours together.
text: Edward stills a passing waiter and his tray of champagne.
text: Crystal flutes for all. He toasts Chase.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: No grape could be more intoxicating
dialog: than you, my dear. But we make due.
dialog: To your charms.
dialog: (clinking hers)
dialog: Skol.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (raising his)
dialog: Nostrovia.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (pausing)
dialog: La'chiem.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (casual)
dialog: Slanta.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Rinka.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Banzai.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I'm drinking.
dialog: And she does.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I notice you've sub-divided your B
text: coupons. Feeling a little light on
dialog: principle?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Actually, I like to divest just
text: before a major re-capitalization.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I wouldn't race to the bank. Old
dialog: regimes crumble every day. Life is
dialog: a cycle. Remember Yeats; turn, turn
text: the widening gyre. The Falconer
dialog: cannot hear the Falcon...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (finishing the poem)
text: And the beast slouches towards
dialog: Bethelem.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Excuse me, boys. I'd hate to stop
dialog: this testosterone flood on my
dialog: account-
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Quite right. Shall we dance?
text: And with that, Edward draws Chase onto to dance floor.
text: 319 As Chase and Edward dance in the b.g. Bruce walks over to 319
text: one of the displays. Examines a control station for the
text: green beam. Tries to pry open a circuit panel.
speaker_heading: SHOWGIRL (OVER)
dialog: Naughty, naughty.
text: She slaps his hand playfully. Bruce smiles an apology.
text: Looks around. No other choice. He steps into a beam.
text: 320 EDWARD twirls Chase, watches Bruce enter the beam. He 320
dialog: smiles.
text: 321 BRUCE - POV. Colorful planets soar all around him. Suddenly 321
text: the beam flashes. There, racing towards him, a giant Bat.
scene_heading: 322 BACK TO SCENE 322
text: All beams wink out as GUN FIRE bursts across the room.
text: TWO-FACE and his Thugs stand at every entrance.
text: BRUCE backs away, slips towards a service door.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Alright, folks, this is an old-
dialog: fashioned, low-tech stick-up. We're
dialog: interested in the basics: jewelry,
dialog: cash, watches, high-end cellular
dialog: phones. Hand 'em over nice and easy
text: and no one gets hurt.
text: Two-Face's Thugs charge the room. The crowd SCREAMS.
scene_heading: 323 EXT. RITZ GOTHAM ALLEY - NIGHT 323
text: Bruce hand-slides down fire-escapes, hits the alley
dialog: running.
scene_heading: 324 EXT. ALLEY 324
text: Bruce ducks into the Rolls.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Emergency, Alfred.
scene_heading: 325 INT. ROLLS 325
text: A secret panel in the back opens. A Batsuit.
scene_heading: 326 INT. PARTY 326
text: The Thugs circulate quickly, yanking jewels from ears and
text: necks, grabbing wallets and purses, filling sacks.
text: Ed pushes his way against the crowd, through Two-Face's
text: ring of personal guards and right up to Two-Face's face.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You're ruining my big party. Are you
dialog: insane? Actually, considering your
dialog: dual persona, let's just forget the
dialog: question.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: We're sick of waiting for you to
dialog: deliver The Bat, Riddle boy. You
dialog: promised us Batman.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Patience, oh bifurcated one.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Screw patience. We want him dead.
dialog: (looking around)
text: An nothing brings out The Bat like
text: a little mayhem and murder.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Oh well, in that case. As long as
dialog: you were going to rob me, you could
dialog: have at least let me in on the
dialog: caper. We could have _organized_ this,
dialog: _planned it_, pre-sold the movie
dialog: rights.
text: (OVER) the CRASH of breaking glass.
speaker_heading: 327 BATMAN 327
text: flies in through a window, kicking a row of Thugs down
text: before he lets go his rope and lands on the floor.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Harv, babe, I gotta be honest. Your
dialog: entrance was good. His was better.
dialog: What's the difference? Showmanship.
text: Two-Face shoves Edward away, looking for a clean shot. He
text: FIRES a couple of times, but only destroys an ice
text: sculpture and some liquor bottles. More SCREAMS.
text: 328 One huge Thug charges Batman. Batman heaves him overhead, 328
text: throws him, CRASHING, into a display of stacked Boxes.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE (OVER)
dialog: Batman, Batman, Batman help!
text: A Thug has a gun to his throat. Batman kicks the weapon
text: out of his hand.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: Batman. You're my _God_!!!
text: 329 Another Thug has Chase to a wall, hand around her pearls. 329
speaker_heading: BATMAN (OVER)
dialog: Excuse me.
text: He head-butts the Thug. The guy goes down.
text: Chase leans up and kisses him, hard and hot on the mouth.
text: The chemistry here is undeniable.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Call me.
text: Batman spins, goes for another group of Thugs.
scene_heading: (OVER) POLICE SIRENS.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Okay boys. Phase two.
text: And with that, he and his Thugs race for the elevator.
text: The doors close.
text: 330 (OVER) CHEERS erupt for Batman as he races onto the 330
dialog: balcony -- and jumps!
scene_heading: 331 BATMAN'S - POV - AERIAL 331
text: Harvey and Thugs disappear past Under Construction signs,
text: down the stairs of an as yet completed subway station.
scene_heading: 332 EXT. RITZ GOTHAM - NIGHT 332
text: PARTY GUESTS - POV. Gripping the edges of his cape, Batman
text: glides 60 floors down the skyscraper towards the street.
text: 333 Batman plummets into the construction sight. 333
scene_heading: 334 INT. DESERTED SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 334
text: Gothic. Deserted. Under construction. Batman hits the
dialog: platform.
text: BATMAN - POV. Shadows race down the dark tunnel ahead.
text: He pursues.
speaker_heading: 335 TUNNEL 335
text: Harvey and Thugs, racing away.
speaker_heading: THUG
text: Bat's right behind us.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Excellent.
scene_heading: 336 INT. ABANDONED STATION - VENTILATION SHAFT 336
text: A wide spiral staircase of scaffolding hugs the walls of
text: a tremendous ventilation shaft.
text: The Thugs race down the steps, knocking out bits of
text: scaffolding as they go, sending entire chunks of already
text: traversed staircase plummeting past them.
speaker_heading: PAN UP
text: Batman arrives on a wide platform of scaffolding at the
text: top of the staircase. His cape whips up around him as if
text: from some low infernal wind.
text: 337 BATMAN - POV. Down the fragmenting staircase, at the bottom 337
text: of the shaft, a tremendous fan spins, chewing chunks of
text: falling scaffolding and plaster, spitting plumes of dust.
speaker_heading: 338 TWO-FACE 338
text: stands at the bottom of the well. He grabs a rack of
text: scaffolding and wrenches the old aluminum supports away.
speaker_heading: 339 THE PLATFORM 339
text: where Batman is standing gives way, planks falling,
text: sending Batman tumbling towards the deadly blades below.
text: 340 BATMAN - POV. The giant whirling blades, coming up fast. 340
text: 341 BATMAN falls, stairways and laughing Thugs whipping past. 341
text: His hand shoots out and grabs
speaker_heading: A THUG
text: by the jacket, wrenching the fabric over the goon's head,
text: jerking him hard into the railing like a human anchor.
text: Batman climbs the struggling Thug like a ladder, leaps
text: onto the staircase, CRACKS the Thug's head on the rail,
text: then races down the stairs.
scene_heading: 342 BOTTOM OF THE SHAFT 342
text: The remaining Thugs disappear through a dark doorway.
text: Batman runs past the BEATING fan blades into...
scene_heading: 343 INT. ABANDONED TUNNEL 343
text: Dark. Steep and sloping. The Thugs are running dead
text: ahead. Without stopping they begin grabbing pieces of
text: debris, flip them under their feet, begin riding down the
text: descending tunnel like snow-boarders.
text: Batman races after them.
scene_heading: 344 THE SNOWBOARDERS 344
dialog: really are good. They ride the rails. The low gas pipes.
text: Even bank the curving sides of the tunnel.
text: 345 A THUG - CLOSE. Looks back to see Batman closing. Mistake. 345
speaker_heading: WHIP PAN
text: as he is clotheslined by a low hanging danger sign. He
text: flies off the snowboard backwards. Out cold.
text: Batman races past him.
text: 346 The end of the tunnel slopes so drastically the dark maw 346
text: at the end seems more a pit than a door.
text: 347 The boarders circle and one by one, drop through like 347
text: bits of filth down a drain.
text: 348 Batman drops into the darkness landing on a small ledge. 348
text: Beyond a precipitous drop he turns to face...
scene_heading: 349 INT. ABANDONED SUBWAY STATION 349
dialog: Years ago this cavernous space glistened with immense
text: Gothic statuary, elaborate tile mosaics, tremendous
text: decorative arches and spectacular cathedral ceilings.
dialog: No more.
text: Now the giant space, from floor to ceiling is a frozen
text: maelstrom of twisting cast iron trusses, broken steam
text: pipes, fragmented scaffolding and hanging cables.
text: 350 Down these man-made slopes and obstacles ride the 350
text: snowboarding Thugs. Cruising pipes. Jumping curved faces
text: of statues. Jacking from scaffold to truss.
text: 351 Batman whips a pair of nun-chucks from his belt over a 351
text: hanging metal rail, using the chain as a pulley, shoots
text: down a curving rail into the mad dance of twisting steel.
speaker_heading: 352 A THUG 352
text: FIRES at him from his whizzing board as it careens along
text: an adjacent piece of scaffolding.
text: 353 BATMAN angles towards him, picking up speed. 353
text: 354 THE THUG banks off some statuary. Takes a few more SHOTS. 354
text: 355 BATMAN shoots around the curve, jumps from one rail to 355
text: the next, catches the villain in the face with his boot,
text: and sends him flying.
text: 356 ANOTHER THUG shoots past over head. 356
text: 357 BATMAN flips onto another pipe, is closing fast, chasing 357
text: the Thug towards a loop that banks towards the blackness
text: of an abandoned tunnel.
text: He is closing on the Thug. Closer. Closer.
text: 358 Suddenly the Thug, hops to a truss, the rail Batman is on 358
text: whipping him around a curve that banks into the mouth of
text: the tunnel. (OVER) GUNSHOTS.
speaker_heading: 359 TWO-FACE 359
text: stands in the shadows, FIRING his machine pistol, blowing
text: a hole in the curving rail directly in front of Batman.
text: 360 The RAIL breaks. 360
text: Batman flies off directly into the dark tunnel.
text: 361 BATMAN - POV. A rushing darkness. He SMASHES into a wall. 361
scene_heading: 362 INT. MOUTH OF TUNNEL 362
text: Two-Face stands staring into the dark with his Thugs. He
text: grabs an aging valve wheel set into the crumbling wall.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Nothing worse than a bad case of
dialog: gas.
text: He begins to turn the CREAKING wheel.
scene_heading: 363 INT. INNER TUNNEL 363
text: A long forgotten pipe by Batman begins to HISS a thick
text: purple gas.
scene_heading: 364 INT. MOUTH OF TUNNEL 364
text: Two-Face swings a grenade launcher before him. Takes a
text: step back. Aims into the tunnel.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: Lights. Camera. Action.
text: As his Thugs scramble for cover, Two-Face FIRES. The
text: grenade flies into the tunnel, SLAMMING into the gas
scene_heading: main. AN EXPLOSION.
text: Suddenly a tremendous secondary EXPLOSION. Debris falls
text: everywhere as the gas ignites, the mouth of the tunnel
text: suddenly brightening into a flaming white fireball.
scene_heading: 365 INT. TUNNEL 365
text: The huge fireball rushes towards Batman. Batman wraps
text: himself in his cape.
text: 366 HAND - CLOSE. As he reaches to his utility belt. Presses a 366
dialog: stud there.
text: 367 His cape begins to run and flow like water morphing into 367
dialog: a protective sphere just as...
text: 368 A tremendous fireball ROARS races down the tunnel 368
text: engulfing Batman in a world of flame.
scene_heading: 369 INT. MOUTH OF TUNNEL 369
text: Two-Face stands staring into the inferno.
text: Billowing smoke, residual flame and falling debris
text: everywhere. No Batman. A moment of dead quiet.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Finally.
text: Then Two-Face's smirk vanishes.
speaker_heading: THUG
dialog: It can't be.
speaker_heading: 370 REVERSE ANGLE 370
text: A shape rises, phoenix-like, out of the flames. The
text: figure moves forward.
text: 371 BATMAN - CLOSE. As his cape parts over his face. 371
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: He lifts his arms, the cape splitting down the center,
text: reverting to it's original form, arms going wide to
text: familiar wings.
text: The Bat heads towards Two-Face and his men.
scene_heading: 372 TWO-FACE - CLOSE. Consumed with rage. 372
text: He grabs a section of the wall's support scaffolding
text: and begins to wrench it free with crazed fury.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Why won't you just die?!
text: In a final rage of maniacal fury, Harvey wrenches the
text: scaffolding free. It's ancient supports gone...
speaker_heading: 373 THE CEILING 373
text: begins to crack and fall, debris pouring in at an ever
text: more furious pace.
text: BATMAN is suddenly doused in a rain of rock and sand.
speaker_heading: 374 THE TUNNEL 374
text: between Harvey and Batman is obstructed by tons of
text: falling metal and plaster and sand. TWO-FACE stands as
text: the ceiling falls all around him.
text: 375 BATMAN is driven down by a storm of wreckage. 375
text: 376 TWO-FACE can barely contain his joy. Plaster and rubble 376
text: fall ever more furiously.
text: 377 BATMAN stumbles as the ground beneath him suddenly gives, 377
text: sucking him into a quickly filling pit of sand and tile.
text: He reaches for his utility belt but its too late.
text: 378 BATMAN is nearly buried, sand coming up over his mouth, 378
text: his eyes, until finally he is gone.
text: 379 TWO-FACE stands watching, eyes full of childish delight. 379
text: The floor in front of him begins to give way, running
text: with deep cracks.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Boys, let's go have us a party.
dialog: (turning)
dialog: Anybody else feel like donuts?
text: Harvey and his men head away, up out of the tunnels.
text: 380 THE SAND PIT - CLOSE. Still. No motion. 380
text: A gloved hand breaks the surface, clutching a Batarang. A
text: weak flip of the wrist.
dialog: The Batarang hist the sand.
text: The hand goes limp. A beat. Another. Suddenly...
text: A GREEN GLOVED HAND - CLOSE. Grabs Batman's hand.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Dick hangs on a wire above Batman in an aerialist's
text: maneuver. He secures his grip and pulls.
scene_heading: DICK - CLOSE. Straining.
text: Suddenly, Batman's face breaks the sand.
text: Dick uses the leverage of his body on the rope to pull
text: harder. Batman begins to rise. Free.
text: The two face each other. Hands still clasped.
scene_heading: 381 INT. BATCAVE - LATER 381
text: Bruce sits in his robe being bandaged by Alfred. Dick is
dialog: pacing.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What the hell did you think you were
dialog: doing?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You have a real gratitude problem.
dialog: You know that, Bruce? I need a name.
dialog: Batboy? The Dark Earl? What's a good
dialog: side kick name?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How about Richard Grayson, college
dialog: student?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: ...I missed Two-Face by a heartbeat.
dialog: When we catch him, you gotta let me
dialog: kill him!
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: We don't kill. Killing is what damns
dialog: you. It-. What am I talking about?
dialog: This conversation is over. You're
dialog: going away to school.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I saved your life. You owe me. So
dialog: either you let me be your partner or
dialog: I'm going after Harvey on my own.
text: And with that Dick turns and storms out of the Batcave.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's starting all over again,
text: Alfred. Another boy lost to rage.
dialog: And it's my fault. If Harvey hadn't
dialog: come gunning for me at the
dialog: circus...His family...
text: Bruce glances at Gotham Times, of Headline- "Bat More
dialog: Harm Than Good?"
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Maybe they're right.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Which `they' might that be, sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Jack Napier's dead. My parents are
dialog: avenged. The Wayne Foundation
dialog: contributes a small fortune to
dialog: police and crime prevention
dialog: programs.
text: Bruce touches a cowl resting on the control panel.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Why do I keep doing this?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Why, indeed?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Could I let Batman go? For Dick. For
dialog: me. Could I leave the shadows? Have
dialog: a life. Friends. Family...
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Dr. Meridian...
text: Bruce touches his lips, the spot Chase kissed Batman.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (pained)
dialog: She's the first woman in a long time
dialog: that's... No. She's the first woman
dialog: ever. And she loves Batman. Not
dialog: Bruce Wayne. If I let go of Batman
dialog: I'll lose her.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps. Perhaps not. Why not ask
dialog: the lady?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How? As Batman, knowing she wants
dialog: me? Or as Bruce Wayne and hope...?
text: Bruce reaches to the phone. Hits an autodial key.
text: (OVER) TONES as the phone begins to dial.
speaker_heading: PHONE (CHASE)
dialog: Hello?..Hello?..Who is this?
text: He disconnects the phone.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Who am I Alfred? I don't think I
dialog: know anymore.
scene_heading: 382 INT. CHASE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 382
text: Dark. Moonlight through curtains. Night SOUNDS.
text: Chase lays asleep in bed. A shadow crosses her face. She
text: stirs.
speaker_heading: REVERSE ANGLE
text: At the french doors to her bedroom stands a familiar
text: silhouette. Batman.
text: Chase rises, moves across the room, the pale light
text: catching her white nightgown. She pulls the doors wide.
text: Chase faces him, bodies close. She reaches up, touches
text: his mask. Kisses him. His cape WHIPS around her.
text: THE KISS - CLOSE. Passionate. Sustained. Chase pulls away.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I'm sorry.
dialog: (sorry)
dialog: I can't believe it. I've imagined
dialog: this moment since I first saw you.
dialog: (touching his glove)
dialog: Your hands.
dialog: (touching his mask)
dialog: Your face.
dialog: (touching his chest)
dialog: Your body.
text: She turns, walks across the room.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: And now I have you and....
dialog: (shaking her head)
dialog: Guess a girl has to grow up
dialog: sometime.
text: She comes back to him, touches his cheek.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I've met someone. He's not...you.
dialog: But... I hope you can understand.
text: He sees now that over her desk, her Batman's memorabilia
text: has been replaced by photos and files on Bruce Wayne.
text: BATMAN - CLOSE. Smiles.
text: Then he's over the balcony and gone, a shadow on the wing
text: in the dead of night.
scene_heading: 383 INT. CLAW ISLAND CONTROL CENTER - DAY 383
text: On his throne, in his sphere, electronically getting more
text: brilliant every second, Edward fills all his screens with
text: Chase's image from the party.
text: HIS BRAIN - CLOSE. Rivulets of neural energy ripple and
text: dance as his brain grows under his magenta hair.
text: Suddenly Two-Face gets him by the throat.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You know, Ed, we woke up this
dialog: morning, we just knew we were gonna
text: kill something. The Bat got away.
dialog: Looks like it's gonna be you.
text: Two-Face draws his gun with his free hand. Trains it on
text: Riddler's head. By the look in his eyes, he's serious.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Why do we need you? You only come
dialog: between us. We can be the smartest
dialog: person in Gotham City. We want the
dialog: empire for ourselves. Time's up,
text: laughing boy.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Kill me? Well, alright. Go ahead.
dialog: Take the empire. All yours.
dialog: (grabbing his own head)
dialog: Hell, Harv, old pals. I'll kill me
dialog: for you.
text: Riddler grabs his hair, starts SLAMMING his own head into
text: the desk-top.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Too...bad...about...Batman.
text: Harvey grabs his head. Stops him.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: What about Batman?
text: Riddler smooths his hair.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: What if you could know a man's mind?
dialog: Would you not then own that man?
text: Riddler hits a switch. Suddenly his screens fill with the
text: image of Bruce stepping into the simulation at the party.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: A few dozen extra IQ points and my
dialog: little invention learned a new
dialog: trick. It does more than drain your
dialog: brain. It makes a map of your mind.
text: The screens change, now showing a turning schematic of a
text: brain, alive with neural lightning.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Would you like to see what my old
text: friend Bruce has in his head.
text: 384 Riddler hits a switch. Another image pulls free from the 384
text: schematic brain. A trapped bat. Fierce. Monstrous. The
text: very picture of imagined evil, made live. Bruce's
dialog: nightmare.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Riddle me this, what kind of man has
dialog: bats on the brain?
text: Two-Face stares at him.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Go ahead. You can say it.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You're a genius.
text: The tow begin to LAUGH.
scene_heading: 385 CLOSE ON BAT 385
text: It's a fake one on top of a pole.
scene_heading: 386 CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL 386
text: Group of YOUNG KIDS in Halloween costumes running through
scene_heading: GOTHAM CEMETERY - DUSK
text: Two gravestones alone on a hill under a tree.
text: The kids pass Bruce who is visiting his family's graves.
speaker_heading: KIDS
dialog: Happy Halloween.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Happy Halloween.
text: Bruce lays two roses on Thomas and Martha Wayne's graves.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: ...Tonight it ends.
speaker_heading: 387 DICK (OVER) 387
dialog: What the hell do you mean, it ends?
speaker_heading: WIDER
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE
text: Bruce and Dick are in mid-conversation.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: From this day on, Batman is no more.
text: Bruce hits a switch. The machines in the cave go dark.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You can't-.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Dick, let go. Revenge will eat you
dialog: alive. Trust me. I know.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: But what about all the good we can
dialog: do? There are monsters out there.
dialog: Gotham needs us.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: And when you finally get Two-Face?
text: Dick looks away.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Exactly. And once you'd killed him
dialog: you'd be lost. Like me.
dialog: (off the cave)
dialog: All this has to be a choice.
dialog: Otherwise...it's a curse.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Bruce, you can't.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Chase is coming for dinner. Why
dialog: don't you join us.
text: And with that, Bruce turns, heads up into the house. Dick
text: stands all alone in the still, dark cave.
text: (OVER) A doorbell RINGS.
scene_heading: 388 EXT. WAYNE MANOR 388
text: Alfred opens the doors to the Trick or Treaters we saw
text: earlier. Hands out bags of candy.
scene_heading: 389 EXT. WAYNE MANOR - ACCESS ROAD 389
text: A mysterious van sits parked on the gravel byway.
scene_heading: 390 INT. VAN 390
text: Two-Face, Riddler, and men sit watching the manor.
text: 391 RIDDLER - POV. A taxi pulls up. Chase emerges as the Trick 391
dialog: or Treaters leave.
speaker_heading: 392 RIDDLER 392
dialog: And today not even my birthday.
text: Two-Face couldn't care less about Chase. He tosses his
text: 393 coin. HOLD ON the spinning faces as (OVER) we hear... 393
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: Bruce, Batman. Bruce, Batman.
scene_heading: 394 INT. COSTUME VAULT, BATCAVE - NIGHT 394
text: Opens with a HISS. Dick passes the Batman costumes until
text: he comes to a standing figure different from the rest.
text: His Robin costume. He packs to leave forever.
scene_heading: 395 EXT. WAYNE ESTATE 395
text: Dick rides his motorcycle through the protective hologram
text: of the trees, heading away into the dark night.
scene_heading: 396 INT. WAYNE MANOR - DINING ALCOVE - NIGHT 396
text: Intensely romantic. Filled with live roses, Alfred leaves
text: having served an intimate candlelight dinner to Bruce and
dialog: Chase.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: There's something I want to talk
dialog: with you about. It's...Well, we..
dialog: I...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Okay, tiger, take it slow. You going
dialog: to give me your pin or something?
text: Bruce LAUGHS. He's obviously having trouble.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Let me go first, okay? I think I've
dialog: found something. About your dreams.
dialog: I pulled the files on your parents'
dialog: murders. There was a missing diary,
dialog: Bruce. Alfred told the police your
dialog: father always kept it on his desk.
dialog: But the day after the murders, it
dialog: was gone. Maybe that's the book
dialog: you're-
text: But Bruce isn't listening. He's pressing his eyes. Hard.
text: 397 BRUCE - POV. A series of images. The coffins. The book. The 397
text: run through the stormy night. The fall. The bat.
speaker_heading: 398 CHASE 398
dialog: What is it? What's wrong?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Flashes. Images. Of that night.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Your memories are repressed. They're
dialog: trying to break through. Relax. Try
dialog: to remember-.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't want to remember!
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Stop fighting.
text: A long beat. Then Bruce Wayne surrenders, leans back.
text: Closes his eyes. Remembers.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: My parents are laid out in the
text: library. Their skin smells like
dialog: talcum powder. I'm so small. My
text: father's diary is on his desk like
dialog: always. I'm opening the book.
dialog: Reading. I'm running out into the
dialog: storm. The book is in my hands. I
dialog: can't hear my screams over the rain.
dialog: I'm falling...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What does it say? What hurts so
dialog: much, Bruce? What does the book say?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't-.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You do know. Try.
text: Bruce opens his eyes. Clear. He remembers.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The last entry read, Bruce insists
dialog: on seeing a movie tonight.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Bruce insists. I made them go out. I
dialog: made them take me to the movie. To
dialog: that theater...
dialog: (finally)
dialog: It was my fault. I killed them.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Oh God, Bruce, you were a child. You
dialog: weren't responsible.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: ...Not the bat?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I always thought it was the bat that
dialog: scared me that night that changed
dialog: my life. But it wasn't. The real
dialog: fear was hiding underneath: what I
dialog: read in the journal, that my parents'
dialog: deaths were my fault. That's what I
dialog: couldn't remember. That's the crime
dialog: I've been paying for all these
dialog: years.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Chase. There's something I need to
dialog: tell you--
text: (OVER) The doorbell RINGS.
speaker_heading: 399 FRONT DOOR 399
text: Alfred peers out to a sea of Halloween Masks.
speaker_heading: LITTLE VOICE
dialog: Trick or Treat?
text: Alfred grabs his candy bags as he opens the door to...
dialog: 400 The Riddler, Two-Face and the Thugs. 400
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Trick.
text: He CRACKS Alfred on the head with his cane. Down he goes.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: (to his thugs)
dialog: Get the girl.
scene_heading: 401 INT. DINING ALCOVE 401
scene_heading: (OVER) A COMMOTION.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What the hell?
text: Thugs appear at both doorways.
text: Bruce moves fast as he grabs a silver serving tray, flips
text: it into one of the screaming Thugs' faces, swings the
text: platter into the other's head. Two down.
text: Bruce grabs Chase's hand and they're out the door, racing
text: fast, several more henchmen in close pursuit.
speaker_heading: 402 MEANWHILE 402
text: The Riddler uses the scanner in the head of his cane to
text: locate and open the secret door to the Batcave.
scene_heading: 403 INT. HALLWAY 403
text: Bruce and Chase race towards the stairway. Bruce pulls
text: standing display suits of armor to the floor as he goes,
text: blocking the Thugs' way.
scene_heading: 404 INT. BAT CAVE 404
text: Riddler has found heaven. From his pouch he produces tiny
text: green bombs shaped like bats. He winds one up, its head
text: SCREECHING with each twist of the neck, lets it fly.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: What's that I hear?
text: 405 Like a tiny bat, the first bomb flies into the video 405
text: wall. A tremendous EXPLOSION.
speaker_heading: 406 RIDDLER 406
dialog: Why it must be the fat lady getting
text: ready to sing.
text: 407 The next bat-bomb flaps into the costume vault. BLOWS 407
text: 408 it completely. The crime lab EXPLODES next. 408
text: 409 The Riddler winds a bunch of bat-bombs now, lets them 409
text: fly. The tiny green bats sail high forming a giant
text: question mark in mid-air before plummeting suddenly in
text: formation down into the cockpit of the Batmobile.
speaker_heading: 410 RIDDLER 410
dialog: (Jack's favorite line)
dialog: Gonna have a hot time in the old
dialog: town tonight.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Who used to say that? Somebody
dialog: always used to say that.
scene_heading: 411 The car EXPLODES. 411
scene_heading: 412 INT. WAYNE MANOR - GRAND STAIRCASE 412
text: Bruce and Chase flee up the giant staircase, the Thugs a
text: step behind. One two-toned bad-guy leaps forward, gets a
text: fistful of Chase's dress. She goes down. Looks like she's
text: done for. At the last moment, Chase gives a mighty kick
text: and the Thug topples backwards, down the stairs.
text: Bruce is holding off a couple more, closing near the top
text: step. He spins, a powerful roundhouse clocking one in the
text: head, sending him backwards down the stairs.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Go!
text: Chase moves behind him, up to the landing, turns to see
text: Bruce fell another with a spinning back kick, a third
text: with a flying back-fist.
text: Bruce and Chase race to the top of the stairs.
text: 413 TWO-FACE stands on the floor below. Just the moment he's
dialog: been waiting for.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: See ya.
text: He SHOOTS. The bullet grazes Bruce's head. He falls down
text: the grand staircase.
text: CHASE SCREAMS as Thugs grab her.
text: BRUCE hits the floor. Hard. No movement. None at all.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Bruce, you sure know how to throw a
dialog: party.
text: Two-Face stands over the prostrate form. Draws his gun. SLAMS
text: in a new clip of ammo.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER (OVER)
dialog: Sheath your weapon my impetuous
dialog: cohort.
text: 414 Riddler has appeared from the Batcave. 414
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: We want to dust him. We truly want
dialog: to dust him bad.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Oh yes, and certainly _WE_ will!
text: Riddler walks over to the unconscious Wayne. Kneels.
text: Looks at him, tender, like a lover. Caresses his face.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: My poor sweet hero.
text: He stands, kicks him hard in the rib cage. Bones CRACK.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: We'll kill him alright. But first...
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Boys.
text: With that, the Thugs drag out a freshly bound Chase.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Bruce!
text: Riddler drops an envelope (RIDDLE #4) on Bruce.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: ...We're going to make him suffer.
scene_heading: 415 INT. BATCAVE 415
text: Sputtering. Burning.
scene_heading: 416 THE COSTUME VAULT 416
text: BATSUIT - CLOSE. Surrounded by licking flames, the Bat
text: emblem begins to melt.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO
scene_heading: 417 BRUCE'S EYE - CLOSE 417
speaker_heading: 418 ZOOM IN 418
text: as we fall again into a dark hole, the Monarch Bat flying
text: straight at the CAMERA, his red eye filling the SCREEN.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO
scene_heading: 419 BRUCE'S EYE - CLOSE 419
speaker_heading: WIDER
scene_heading: 420 INT. BRUCE'S BEDROOM - MORNING 420
text: Bruce is in bed, head bandaged. Alfred is walking a
text: doctor to the door.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
text: The injuries are relatively minor.
dialog: The shot did cause a concussion.
dialog: Watch for headaches. Memory lapses.
dialog: Odd behavior. I'll check back in a
dialog: few days.
text: Alfred ushers him out, returns to Bruce's bedside.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: How are you feeling, young man?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Not that young. It's been a long
dialog: time since you've called me that.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Old habits die hard. Are you
dialog: alright?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: As well as can be expected, I guess.
dialog: Give me the bad news.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Dick has run away. They have taken
dialog: Dr. Meridian. And I'm afraid they
dialog: found the cave, sir. It's been
dialog: destroyed.
text: Bruce looks up at Alfred, eyes narrow, puzzled.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The case? What cave?
scene_heading: 421 EXT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS ROOFTOP 421
text: The Batsignal lights the sky. Gordon paces.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Where is he?
text: A concerned DEPUTY emerges onto the roof.
speaker_heading: DEPUTY
dialog: The Mayor's called again.
dialog: (off the signal)
dialog: He's not going to show. Maybe he's
dialog: hurt sir. Maybe he's--.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: No!
dialog: (not so sure)
dialog: ...No.
scene_heading: 422 INT. BATCAVE 422
text: Or what's left of it. Melted ruin and rubble. Bruce
text: stands with a worried Alfred, surveying the landscape.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (disbelieving)
dialog: I'm Batman? I remember my life as
dialog: Bruce Wayne.
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: But all this. It's like the life of
text: a stranger.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps the fall...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: There's one other thing. I feel..
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...Afraid.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Bruce. Son. Listen to me. You are a
dialog: kind man. A strong man. But in truth
dialog: you are not the most sane man.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...A bat.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I remember a bat. A monster. A
dialog: demon. Chasing me.
dialog: (child's terror)
dialog: Oh my God, Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No demons, son.
dialog: (touching his head)
dialog: Your monsters are here. Until you
dialog: fact that, I fear you will spend
dialog: your life fleeing them.
scene_heading: 423 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL ROOM 423
text: Riddler sits on his throne, absorbing pulses of neural
text: energy, his head growing.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: It's happy time Gotham. Have you
dialog: hugged your little boxes today?
dialog: (singing)
dialog: I'm in heaven. I'm in heaven with a
dialog: girl like you.
speaker_heading: 424 WIDER 424
text: Chase has been chained to the floor of his throne.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Batman will come for me.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Someday my bat will come. Some day
dialog: my bat will come.
dialog: (suddenly lethal)
dialog: I'm counting on it.
text: He puts his face close to Chase's.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You're frying your brain.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Nap time gorgeous.
text: The Riddler draws a hypo filled with green liquid. He
text: plunges it into her neck as she passes out.
scene_heading: 425 INT. BATCAVE 425
text: Bruce stands before a dark, rocky mouth. Through this
text: passage, the cave as it once was, sweating granite, a
text: shifting world of shadow.
text: Bruce steps inside.
scene_heading: 426 INT. INNER BATCAVE 426
text: FAVOR BRUCE as he walks deeper into the darkness. The
text: walls around him undulate, as if covered in water.
text: 427 WALLS - CLOSER. The movement isn't water at all. It's the 427
text: restless shrugging of bats. Thousands of bats.
text: 428 Bruce presses on. Sweat beads on his face. 428
text: Ahead, a diffusion of moonlight illuminates a curving
text: rock chamber, bats here too bringing the walls to life.
text: Bruce moves into the moonlight. Looks up.
text: 429 BRUCE - POV. A narrow chute. The fall he took as a child. 429
text: He kneels, there on the floor, worn by years of weather,
text: a single book. A diary.
text: Bruce kneels, touches the leather cover, fingers
text: lingering for a moment on his father's embossment, before
text: he turns yellowed pages to the last entry. Painfully, by
text: moonlight, he reads.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (OVER)
dialog: (dreaded confirmation)
text: Bruce insists on seeing a movie
dialog: tonight...
text: He pauses, gathers himself. He continues.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (OVER)
dialog: But Martha and I have our hearts set
dialog: on Zorro, so Bruce's cartoon will
dialog: have to wait until next week.
text: Bruce stares at the book in disbelief. Then he looks up
text: at the moonlight, tears streaming down his face.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...Not my fault. It wasn't my fault.
text: 430 Suddenly, in the darkness ahead, a dark shape moves, head 430
text: rising, slits opening to reveal two blood red eyes.
text: The giant monarch bat spreads its wings, huge, as it
text: rises, suddenly airborne, rushing toward him.
text: 431 BRUCE - CLOSE. And terrified. He turns to run. The bat's 431
text: flapping wings BEAT like drums, closing fast.
text: Bruce holds his ground. Resolved. He turns and faces the
text: monster, SCREECHING towards him, glistening fangs barely
text: inches from his face.
text: Something remarkable happens. The bat holds its
text: position, stares into Bruce's eyes, wings spreading wide.
text: A beat. Then Bruce raises his arms, a living mirror. The
text: two stand facing each other, man and bat. In the moon-
text: light on the wall, their shadows begin to blend, to
text: merge, becoming one _SHIMMERING WHITE LIGHT!_
scene_heading: 432 INT. BATCAVE 432
text: The mouth of the inner cave. A sudden SCREAMING DIN as a
text: storm of bats explode into the cave, a shooting column of
text: life and there, from within, steps a man.
speaker_heading: 433 REVERSE ANGLE 433
text: ALFRED stands at the entrance.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Master, Bruce?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...Batman, Alfred. I'm Batman.
scene_heading: 434 EXT. NIGHT SKY 434
text: The Batsignal shines. Suddenly the air above the familiar
text: circle begins to shimmer and glow, becoming...
text: A giant green question mark. The Batsignal itself is now
text: just the small period at the symbol's bottom.
scene_heading: 435 INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT 435
text: Bruce stands at the ruined control platform. Riddles are
text: spread before him. Including the most recent.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: All the answers are numbers.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: But 1, 3, 1, 8, & 5. What do they mean?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What do maniacs always want?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Recognition, of course.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Precisely. So this number is
text: probably some kind of calling card.
text: Bruce stares at the numbers. Adds them: 18. Squares them:
text: 1916425. No luck. Starts again, separating them: 13/18/5.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Letters in the alphabet.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Of course. 13 is M....MRE.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How about, MR. E.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Mystery.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: And another name for Mystery?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Enigma.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Exactly. Mr. E. Mister Edward Nygma.
scene_heading: 436 INT. STONE STAIRCASE 436
text: Bruce leads Alfred through a secret stairway.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Good thing Mr. E. didn't know about
text: the cave under the cave.
scene_heading: 437 INT. SUBTERRANEAN CAVE 437
text: Dark, jagged, surrounded by water. Here, the Batwing and
dialog: Batboat are stored.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What now sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Claw Island. Nygma's headquarters.
dialog: I'm sure that's where they're
dialog: keeping Chase.
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Are all the Batsuits destroyed?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: All except the prototype with the
dialog: sonar modifications you so
dialog: disapprove of. But it hasn't yet
dialog: been tested.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Tonight's a good night.
text: 438 CLOSE ON - Batman's fist being shoved into a new gauntlet. 438
text: 439 CLOSE ON - Batman's new boot snapping shut. 439
text: 440 CLOSE ON - the improved Utility Belt buckling on firmly. 440
text: 441 CLOSE ON - the new cowl sliding down over Batman's head. 441
scene_heading: 442 PULL BACK TO REVEAL 442
text: The Batman - a darker enemy to fear.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What do you suggest, Alfred. By see or by air?
speaker_heading: DICK (OVER)
dialog: Why not both?
text: A figure steps out of the shadows. Dick.
text: The cape is now black, yellow on the inside only. A red
text: armored vest compliments green tights with knee armor, a
text: utility belt and flexible black boots.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Dick... Where did you get that suit?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I...um..took the liberty, sir.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I thought you could use a friend.
text: Bruce stares at him a beat.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Not a friend.
text: He extends his hand.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: A partner.
text: The Dynamic Duo clasp hands.
scene_heading: 443 EXT. WAYNE MANOR - TENNIS COURT - NIGHT 443
text: Fast clouds. Bowing trees.
text: Suddenly, the entire tennis court slides away.
text: The Batwing rises into the night sky.
scene_heading: 444 EXT. STORM DRAIN 444
text: The Batboat hits the water.
scene_heading: 445 EXT. ROOFTOP OF POLICE HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT 445
text: Commissioner Gordon and his deputy, standing vigil under
text: the false moon of the Batsignal.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (finally)
dialog: He's not coming. Shut it down.
text: The Deputy reaches for the power switch. Suddenly, a ROAR
text: cuts the night.
scene_heading: 446 ANGLE UP TO 446
text: The Batsignal. The ROAR grows louder. Light and shadow
text: dance, for a second it seems the Batsignal itself is
text: flying toward us. Suddenly --
text: The Batwing bursts _through_ the signal.
text: 447 The dark plane BUZZES Police Headquarters, dipping a wing 447
dialog: to Gordon.
text: 448 A triumphant Gordon waves Batman onward. 448
scene_heading: 449 INT. COCKPIT 449
text: Working the controls, Batman is back.
scene_heading: 450 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 450
text: Still, night waters.
text: Suddenly, the Batboat, running silent and dark, cuts
text: across the harbor.
text: 451 Dick is at the helm, wearing night-vision goggles. 451
text: 452 DICK'S POV -- INFRA-RED. Claw Island looms ahead. 452
scene_heading: 453 SEARCHLIGHTS 453
text: atop the island headquarters pop on, one by one, flooding
text: the water with light.
scene_heading: 454 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL CENTER - NIGHT 454
text: The Riddler and Two-Face stand clutching controls on
text: opposite sides of a holographically generated game of
dialog: Battleship.
text: Each is firing tiny blips at the small dot crossing the
text: floating screen.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: A-14.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Miss.
scene_heading: 455 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 455
text: A mortar EXPLODES aft of the Batboat, shooting a WATER
text: SPOUT high in the sky.
scene_heading: 456 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL CENTER - NIGHT 456
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: B-12.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: A miss. And my favorite vitamin, I
dialog: might add.
scene_heading: 457 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR 457
text: Another EXPLOSION to stern.
text: Dick is thrown as a third shell hits the Batboat. The
text: craft EXPLODES.
scene_heading: 458 INT. NYGMATECH - RECREATION ROOM 458
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: A hit.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: You sunk my battleship.
scene_heading: 459 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 459
text: Dick slips a re-breather into his mouth. Dives
text: underwater, starts to swim towards Claw Island.
speaker_heading: 460 UNDERWATER 460
text: A SPEAR shoots past leaving a trail of bubbles. Another.
scene_heading: 461 A HIDDEN BUNKER 461
text: issues a stream of armed frogmen.
scene_heading: 462 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 462
text: The BATWING soars over the water.
scene_heading: 463 INT. BATWING COCKPIT 463
scene_heading: INFRA-RED SCREEN - CLOSE
text: A Dick blip, besieged underwater by frogmen blips.
scene_heading: 464 EXT. CLAW ISLAND - NIGHT 464
text: A laser shoots from the top of the stronghold, neatly
text: 465 severing one of the Batwing's wings. 465
scene_heading: 466 EXT. BATWING - GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 466
text: The Batwing dives straight into the river.
scene_heading: 467 INT. COCKPIT 467
scene_heading: BATMAN - POV - THROUGH THE WINDSCREEN. The water comes up
text: fast, a rushing EXPLOSION.
scene_heading: 468 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - UNDERWATER 468
text: Dark panels shift, sealing wheel hubs, growing sleek fins
text: as the Batwing morphs now into the Batsub.
speaker_heading: 469 UNDERWATER 469
text: Two frogmen hold Dick by arms and legs as several more
text: swim towards him with exposed knives.
speaker_heading: 470 THE BATSUB 470
text: BLASTS over an underwater reef.
text: 471 A TORPEDO TUBE - CLOSE. FIRES a dark rocket towards the 471
text: frogmen at blinding speed.
scene_heading: 472 A FROGMAN - CLOSE. Spins. 472
text: 473 FROGMAN'S POV - THROUGH MASK. The torpedo racing towards 473
text: him unfurls to reveal...Batman.
text: 474 BATMAN'S FIST smashes the glass of the Frogman's mask. 474
text: 475 THE THUG rises in a mass of bubbles. 475
text: 476 DICK uses the distraction and kicks free. Batman and Dick 476
text: take on the frogmen, hand to hand.
scene_heading: 477 EXT. CLAW ISLAND SHORE - NIGHT 477
text: Batman and Dick break the surface. Dick discards his re-
text: breather. Climbs onto the shore.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: Holy rusted metal, Batman.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What?
text: Dick takes a few steps forward, kneels.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (off the rusted floor)
text: The ground. It's metal and its full
dialog: of holes. You know. Holey.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: This place was a refueling station
dialog: for subs during the war...
text: Just as Batman starts to climb out of the water (OVER) a
text: horrendous CRUNCHING as Dick begins to rise.
speaker_heading: 478 WIDER 478
text: The island surface is actually the top of a tremendous
text: metal sphere balanced atop an enormous cylindrical oil
text: tank, rising, now, fast out of the water.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Dick.
text: 479 Batman throws a Batarang but it glances off the side of 479
dialog: the sphere.
speaker_heading: 480 WIDER 480
text: Batman stands staring up at Dick, who stands alone atop
text: the metal sphere now near five stories high.
text: No way up. Batman spots a rusting access panel in the
text: giant support cylinder. He RIPS it off and climbs inside.
scene_heading: 481 EXT. DOME 481
text: Dick stands looking down at the ocean.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE (OVER)
dialog: The Bat or the Bird. We couldn't
dialog: decide who got to kill who.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Or is it whom?
text: Dick spins. Two-Face has emerged from a hatch atop the
text: dome. He stands smiling at Dick, a knife in his hands.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: We flipped for it. We got you.
text: Two-Face's leap is savage, catching Dick by the throat.
speaker_heading: 482 WIDER 482
text: The two slide down the sloping edge of the dome, their
text: descent stopped by a narrow, rusting metal lip.
text: Two-Face SMASHES Dick's head into the side of the dome.
dialog: Once. Twice. Three times.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: What's wrong, circus-boy? No mommy
dialog: and daddy to save you?
text: Two-Face raises his blade over the dazed Dick. Brings it
dialog: down fast.
text: Dick rolls clear, the blade wedging into the rusted metal
text: surface. All the time Dick needs. He back-flips erect,
text: kicks Two-Face hard in the head.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: For my mother.
text: A flying front kick to the chin.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: For my father.
text: A spinning back kick knocking him to his knees.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: For Chris.
text: Dick hauls off and smashes him in the face.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: For me.
text: The punch sends Two-Face rolling down the side of the
text: dome, fingers raking sloping steel, finding no purchase.
text: 483 At the last second, Two-Face grabs a small metal dimple 483
text: on the belly of the dome's curve, hanging on for dear
text: life, feet kicking wildly over the abyss.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: The scales are tipped. The blindfold
text: torn from the lady's eyes. Justice
dialog: will be served.
text: The rusting metal bulge starts to tear and break.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You're a man after my own heart,
dialog: son.
text: The metal breaks free.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: See you in hell.
text: Two-Face's hands tear through the rust. He falls.
text: 484 DICK'S HAND grabs him.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Dick hoists him to safety.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: No. I'd rather see you in jail.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: The Bat's taught you well. Noble.
text: Two-Face spins, a gun suddenly in his hand, pressing now
text: into the flesh between Dick's eyes.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: A mistake. But definitely noble.
text: Two-Face COCKS the trigger.
scene_heading: 485 INT. CYLINDER 485
text: Immense. Empty. Just the CRASHING surf and rocks below.
text: Batman looks up. The ceiling is...
text: 486 A GIANT STEEL GRATE flush with the sides of the cylinder. 486
text: Batman loads a Batarang into his launcher. FIRES.
text: 487 THE BATARANG flies high, secures purchase on the grate. 487
text: 488 BATMAN attaches the cable to the winch on his belt. 488
text: Begins rising fast.
scene_heading: 489 THE GRATE BOLTS 489
text: EXPLODE, causing the giant grate to fall towards Batman.
text: 490 BATMAN twirls on the rope so he is rising upside down, 490
text: his feet racing towards the plummeting grate. He hits a
text: switch on his utility belt-
speaker_heading: 491 THRUSTERS 491
text: on his new Batsuit ROCKET him feet first towards the
text: descending grate.
text: 492 IMPACT! The grate flips like a pie pan. Batman lets go of 492
text: the wire, cutting his thrusters and tumbling in mid-air
text: so his hands now extend before him. He grabs one of the
text: steel girders in the darkness overhead.
text: 493 Batman hangs, watching the now dislodged grate fall to 493
text: the watery depth below. A beat. He hoists himself onto a
dialog: steel platform to face...
scene_heading: 494 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL ROOM 494
text: The Riddler sits across the room in his throne, a huge
text: antenna shooting up into the night sky behind him through
text: a round hole in the dome. A large ring of Green Neon
text: encircles him, feeding him more and more brain power.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Welcome to my parlor said the
dialog: Riddler to the Bat. How's tricks?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No more tricks, Edward. Release
dialog: Chase and Dick. This is between you
dialog: and me.
text: Two-Face steps from behind The Riddler.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: And me and me.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (off the antenna)
dialog: ...Of course. The Box does more
dialog: than enhance neural energy. You've
text: been sucking Gotham's brainwaves.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: And now it's new. Improved. Better
dialog: than ever.
text: 495 SCREENS - CLOSE - Endless schematics of flickering brains. 495
speaker_heading: 496 BATMAN 496
dialog: ...The jolt I felt in the beam at
dialog: your party.
dialog: (getting it)
dialog: You've devised a way to map the
dialog: human brain. To read men's minds.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Oh, Bruce, you are clever. How
dialog: fitting that numbers lead you to me.
dialog: For numbers will crown me king. My
dialog: Box will sit on countless TV's
dialog: around the globe, mapping brains,
dialog: giving me credit card numbers. Bank
dialog: codes. Safe combinations. Numbers of
dialog: infidelities. Of crimes. Of lies
dialog: told. No secret is safe from my
dialog: watchful electronic eye. I will
dialog: rule the planet. For if knowledge is
dialog: power then tremble world, Edward
dialog: Nygma has become a God.
dialog: (to Harvey)
dialog: Was that over the top? I can never
dialog: tell...
dialog: (to Batman)
dialog: By the way, B-man, I got _your_
dialog: number.
text: 497 SCREENS - CLOSE form a towering picture of Batman. 497
text: 498 OTHER SCREENS - CLOSE form a towering picture of Bruce. 498
text: 499 The images collide, forming a half Bruce, half Batman. 499
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: I've seen your mind. Yours is the
dialog: greatest Riddle of all. Can Bruce
dialog: Wayne and Batman ever truly coexist?
dialog: Stop me if I'm wrong here.
text: Batman remains stoic, but The Riddler is right on.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: So let's help you decide, once and
dialog: for all, who you really are. Behind
dialog: Curtain #1...
text: A curtain rises: Chase in a cylinder, bound unconscious.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
text: The captivating Dr. Chase Meridian.
dialog: Love of Bruce Wayne's life. Behind
dialog: curtain #2...
text: Another curtain reveals: Dick in similar peril.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Batman's one and only partner.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Below, my personal favorite...
speaker_heading: 500 TRAP DOORS 500
text: beneath Chase and Dick open wide. ANGLE DOWN to the
text: jagged rocks and crashing surf below.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: A watery grave!
text: 501 A BUTTON - CLOSE. Shaped like a glowing green skull. 501
speaker_heading: 502 RIDDLER 502
dialog: A simple touch and five seconds
dialog: later these two day players are so
text: much gull feed on the rocks below.
dialog: Not enough time to save them both.
dialog: So who will it be? Bruce's love?
dialog: Batman's partner? You decide. Is
dialog: this fun or what?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Edward, you've become a monster.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: You flatter me. No monster. Just The
dialog: Riddler, and here's yours. What is
dialog: without taste or sound, all around,
dialog: but can't be found? On your mark,
dialog: get set...
text: The Riddler reaches for the button. Batman steps forward.
text: 503 ANGLE from the water below. 503
text: The floor between where Batman stands and the Riddler's
text: throne platform is translucent. A hologram masking a
text: tremendous gap. Batman is about to step into an abyss.
text: 504 Batman stops short. Looks up at Riddler. 504
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Death.
dialog: (louder)
dialog: Death. Without taste, sound and all
dialog: around us.
dialog: (getting it)
dialog: Because there is no way for me to
dialog: save them or myself. This is one
text: giant death trap.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Excellent. See. Who says a guy in a
dialog: rubber suit can't be smart? Well,
dialog: it's been grand. Sorry you all have
dialog: to die now.
text: Riddler touches the skull button. (OVER) A SCREECH.
text: Batman looks up.
text: 505 HIGH ABOVE the Riddler's antenna a giant monarch bat 505
text: glides across the night.
scene_heading: 506 THE BAT - CLOSE. 506
scene_heading: 507 BATMAN - CLOSE. No fear. A moment of communion. 507
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Wait. I have a riddle for you.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: For _me_? Really? Tell me.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I see without seeing. To me,
text: darkness is as clear as daylight.
dialog: What am I?
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Oh please. You're blind as a bat.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Exactly!
text: Batman SLAMS his Utility Belt, releasing a high energy
text: Batarang which he hurls at the Riddler's huge antenna.
scene_heading: 508 THE BATARANG 508
text: SMASHES into the Riddler's antenna. A tremendous
text: EXPLOSION of sparks as the transceiver short circuits.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: No!
text: The room goes pitch black.
text: 509 RIDDLER'S FINGER - CLOSE. Hits the skull button. 509
scene_heading: 510 DICK AND CHASE 510
text: drop, plummet through space.
text: 511 BATMAN - CLOSE. Two metal lids SHUT over Batman's eyes. 511
scene_heading: 512 BATMAN'S POV - INSIDE THE MASK 512
text: Small sonar screens on the back of Batman's eyepieces
text: reveal the phantom floor and the wild criss-cross of
text: interconnected steel beams and the crashing ocean below.
speaker_heading: 513 BATMAN 513
text: throws another Batarang, which lassos a beam overhead,
text: swings forward, grabbing a falling Chase as he passes,
text: depositing her on a steel platform.
scene_heading: 514 BATMAN - POV (SONAR SCREENS). Dick drops to certain death. 514
speaker_heading: 515 BATMAN 515
text: dives towards the sea below as he whips another Batarang
text: 516 around a passing girder. He catches Dick just above the 516
text: rocks precisely as the Batrope pulls taught, using the
text: bat-winch to shoot them back up to the platform.
scene_heading: 517 BATMAN - POV (SONAR SCREENS) 517
text: As he rests Dick on the platform beside Chase. Suddenly
text: his world flares a blinding white.
speaker_heading: 518 TWO-FACE 518
text: stands on the platform before him, a halogen light
text: strapped around his head, blinding Batman's sensors.
text: Two-Face brandishes his gun.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: All those heroics for nothing. No
dialog: more riddles, no more curtains one
text: and two. Just plain old curtains.
text: He COCKS the trigger.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Haven't you forgotten something,
dialog: Harvey? You're always of two minds
dialog: about everything....
text: The handsome side of Harvey's face turns toward them.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Oh. Emotion is so often the enemy of
dialog: justice. Thank you, Bruce.
text: He takes out his famous coin and flips it. Batman starts
text: to reach for his Utility Belt, to out-smart Two-Face. But
text: as the coin flies high up in the air, it comes down just
text: a hair too far away.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: No!
text: 519 As Two-Face reaches out to catch it, he loses his balance 519
text: and falls to the rocks and angry sea below.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Help Chase. I'll be back.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (groggy)
dialog: Did Two-Face call him Bruce?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Of course not.
text: 520 Batman starts scaling girders, pulls himself back into... 520
scene_heading: 521 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL ROOM 521
text: The lights are still down but the antenna's functioning
text: again, the Riddler in his throne, absorbing pulses of
text: neural energy. Too much. his entire head seems to
text: distort, fluctuating in size and wavering.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Why can't I kill you? Now there's a
dialog: riddle?
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Not smart enough. Find a way.
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Too many questions.
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Why you and not me?
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Why me?
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Why??!!
text: Batman SLAMS the power switch, the throne going dark.
text: EDWARD - CLOSE. Knees drawn to his chest. Pathetic.
scene_heading: WHIMPERING. Mad.
text: Batman looks down, his eyes sad, compassionate.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Poor, Edward. I had to save them
dialog: both. You see, I am Bruce Wayne and
dialog: Batman. Not because I have to be.
dialog: Now because I choose to be.
text: Batman reaches out to Edward. Ed jerks in fear, looks up.
text: 522 EDWARD'S POV - Coming towards him, not Batman, but a 522
text: hideous demonic giant bat.
scene_heading: 523 EDWARD - CLOSE. SCREAMS 523
scene_heading: 524 EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT 524
text: Another stormy night.
scene_heading: 525 INT. MAXIMUM SECURITY WING 525
text: Dr. Burton walks the corridor with Chase.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Edward Nygma has been screaming for
dialog: hours that he knows the true
dialog: identity of Batman.
text: They reach Edward's cell.
scene_heading: 526 THEIR POV -- INT. PADDED CELL 526
text: Lit only by the moon. Chase speaks through the small
text: barred set into the heavy door.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Edward...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: It's Dr. Meridian. Chase. Do you
dialog: remember me?
speaker_heading: EDWARD (O.S.)
dialog: How could I forget?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Dr. Burton tells me you know who
dialog: Batman is.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (O.S.)
dialog: (giggle, giggle)
dialog: Yesssssss. I know!
text: Chase and Burton look at each other, on edge.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Who is The Batman, Edward?
speaker_heading: EDWARD (O.S.)
dialog: Can't tell if you don't say please.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You're right, Edward. I didn't mean
dialog: to be impolite. Please.
text: No response. Just GIGGLES.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Edward, please. Who is Batman?
text: A beat. Suddenly a huge silhouette of a bat appears on
text: the padded wall. Into it leaps Edward, the sleeves of his
text: straightjacket madly flapping like the wings of a bat.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I AM BATMAAAAAAANN!!!
scene_heading: 527 EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT 527
text: Chase comes down the front steps to find Alfred waiting
text: with the Rolls, holding the rear door open.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Mr. Wayne sent me to pick you up.
scene_heading: 528 INT. ROLLS - MOVING 528
text: Alfred drives out the front gates of Arkham Asylum.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Where's Bruce?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: He asked me to convey his deepest
dialog: apologies, Dr. Meridian. But he
dialog: wanted me to give you this.
text: Alfred hands her a small wicker figure. The dream doll.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: He said to thank you. And to tell
dialog: you he no longer needs it.
text: She notices the Batsignal in the night sky.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Does it ever end Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No, Miss. Not in this lifetime.
text: Chase looks out the car window. In the distance, the
text: shape of the bat shimmers against the clouds.
scene_heading: 529 ZOOM INTO 529
text: The Batsignal, filling the screen.
speaker_heading: PAN DOWN
scene_heading: 530 EXT. TOP OF SKYSCRAPER - NIGHT 530
text: Batman stands on the edge of the gargoyled building, a
text: lone silhouette keeping vigil over the city.
text: Then another figure steps up into frame, taking his place
text: behind Batman. Their capes billow in the city wind.
text: Now there are two guardians of the night: Batman and
dialog: Robin. Beware!
text: FINAL FADE TO BLACK.
dialog: 
