dialog: 
dialog: Screenplay by
dialog: Corey Mandell
speaker_heading: FIRST DRAFT
speaker_heading: OCTOBER, 1998
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BARREN MOUNTAINOUS REGION -- DUSK
text: The sky glows deep crimson as the sun starts to sink below the
text: horizon, casting shadows over...
text: A small group of native people, clad in animal skins, congregat
text: outside a remote cave. Their heads reverently bowed, while--
speaker_heading: PARSON STAFFER
text: And the monsters descended from the sky,
text: raising a great cloud of dust killing
dialog: all men, but for a very few...
text: His gaze sweeps across the youngsters, drilling into their heads
speaker_heading: PARSON STAFFER (cont'd)
dialog: As survivors, we must dedicate our lives
dialog: to pleasing the gods, so they may return
dialog: and drive away the monsters.
text: Turns a sharp eye back to Jonnie, but still addressing the child
speaker_heading: PARSON STAFFER (cont'd)
dialog: “nd arrogance does not please the gods.
text: Bis rugged frame clothed in a puma hide, a kill-club hanging fron
text: his belt. And although only nineteen, JONNIE, already has the
text: look of sameone who has already overcome a lifetime's worth of
text: adversity. He immediately turns to Chrissv.
speaker_heading: PARSON STAFFER
text: Finishes chanting up ‘to the heavens.
speaker_heading: PARSON STAFFER
dialog: ++-May you chase away the monsters and
dialog: lead us back to the lands of plenty.
text: The clan closes their eyes in silent prayer. All except for--
speaker_heading: CHERISSY
text: Her teenage ccuntenance offset by the maturity in her strong dark
dialog: eyes.
scene_heading: EXT. CAVE -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The parson shakes his head as Jonnie secures an animal-skin sleep
text: roll and extra kill-clubs to his snow-white horse, WINDSPLITTER.
scene_heading: i. PARSCN STAFFER
dialog: This is not what your mother wanted.
text: The parson's ancient face burns with religious fury as he drills
text: his stare into Jonnie.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: My mother wanted what was best for the
dialog: tribe. And as long as we stay here,
dialog: there will barely be enough to eat.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: ed
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: While there may be other places we could |
dialog: live where the food is more plentiful.
speaker_heading: PARSON STAFFER
dialog: It is true that food is scarce, and
dialog: everyone appreciates your desire to help,
dialog: but I can't help wonder if there isn't
dialog: more to why you want to go out there...
text: Be lets that hang there, then gives Jonnie a pointed look--
speaker_heading: PARSON STAFFER (cont'd)
dialog: But all it would take is for one monster
dialog: to see you, and follow you back, and we
dialog: would all be struck down.
text: Jonnie meets his rage with calm determination.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Have you ever seen a monster?
text: He turns to the rest of the clan, challenging--
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: Has anyone here ever seen a monster?
text: And if he has any doubt in his voice, Jonnie does a good job of
text: hiding it. He hops onto Windsplitter and takes off--
scene_heading: . EXT. OTHER SIDE OF THE RAVINE -- CONTINUOUS. -
text: Jonnie heads down the hill, turning a bend, where--
speaker_heading: CHRISSY
text: Sits waiting for him on her horse, which like Windsplitter, is
text: loaded with an animal-skin sleeping roll and kill-clubs.
text: Jonnie smiles, impressed by Chrissy's mettle. But shakes his
dialog: head. :
speaker_heading: _ JONNIE
dialog: . (finishing his thought)
dialog: --I think you can handle yourself better
dialog: than most men... Which is why you must
dialog: stay and look after your younger
dialog: brothers.
text: Chrissy looks at him, chagrined. It's hard to argue with that.
text: A tough beat. Nothing left but to say good-bye...
text: And finally, struggling to keep her face a mask, Chrissy removes
text: a shiny MEDALLION hanging from her neck.
speaker_heading: CHRISSY
dialog: This was given to me by my father when he
dialog: died. He received it from his father.
dialog: (trying to hold
dialog: back the emotions)
dialog: I'm not giving it to you. I'm lending
dialog: it. So, you better not let anything
dialog: happen to you out there...
dialog: 
text: . The young ones obediently stop at the bridge. They will not
text: She places the medallion around his neck, their bodies close ||
dialog: not touching. So much not being said...
text: The tribe's children race alongside Jonnie, excited by the
text: adventure he's going on. But secretly terrified by the death
dialog: they've been taught awaits him...
text: cross it. But Jonnie does, leaving the’tribe behind.
text: Chrissy's mask starting +o crack as she watches him disappear
text: The first of the tears escaping down her cheeks. |
scene_heading: EXT. VALLEY -- DUSK
text: As night falls, Jonnie rides across wide open plains. His eyt
text: tense, searching the gathering darkness for the first sign of
text: And he suddenly freezes. Seeing his first ever...
speaker_heading: STAR
dialog: 
text: Hovering majestically overhead. Soon joined by other stars.
text: Jonnie stares up in wonderment at these heavenly lights.
scene_heading: EXT. PRAIRIE -- SEVERAL DAYS LATER
text: Jonnie steals through the grass, throwing his kill-club with
text: blurring speed at an unsuspecting ANTELOPE.
scene_heading: EXT. FOREST -- DAYS LATER
text: Jonnie rides through a grove of conifer trees, the strips of
text: dried meat now hanging from his sleeping roll, when he sudden]
text: i and silently dismounts--
text: Careful not to make the slightest sound, Jonnie slips behind e
speaker_heading: ROCK FORMATION
text: Pulling his kill-club, Jonnie carefully peers out through a th
text: tangle of brush,
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN #- DAY
text: Jonnie and Windsplitter move through a deserted housing develo
text: passing TREES which grow up through the sidewalks and streets.
text: A faded piece of PAPER flutters by. Jonnie picks it up.
text: He can just make out a picture of a woman in a bra. The first
text: time Jonnie has seen a photo, let alone women's undergarments.
text: More paper litters the ground nearby. Jonnie heads to them,
text: passing a rusted TRAIN abandoned on its tracks.
text: Windsplitter abruptly stops. Nostrils flaring. Eyes on a HOUS
text: The door knocked off its hinges. Windows shattered. Jonnie
text: pulls his kill-club and silently shoos Windsplitter away.
text: Kill-club at the ready, Jonnie cautiously approaches the house,
dialog: when suddenly--
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: A GRIZZLY BEAR
text: Rockets out the front door, barreling after--
text: Jonnie, who bolts away, desperately trying to outrun his de:
text: pursuer. Seeking higher ground, Jonnie races to the-- |
text: Train, and scrambles up the side of a rail car, then spins |
dialog: i
scene_heading: EXT. RAIL CAR ROOF -- CONTINUOUS ;
dialog: |
text: The grizzly has stopped chasing him and turns back to her Ct
text: who scamper out of the house to play in the front yard.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Good thing she already had her lunch--
text: Jonnie whirls around with club raised. Coming face to face \
speaker_heading: TWO MEN
text: The one doing the talking, CARLO, is wiry and intense-lookin
text: In contrast to his ‘built-like-a-brick-shithouse' companion,
dialog: we'll call ROCK for obvious reasons.
dialog: But the thing Jonnie probably notices first about the men ari
text: SPEARS they both have aimed at his chest. .. oe
text: Carlo motions to the kill-club in Jonnie's hand.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CARLO (cont'd)
dialog: We mean you no harm, if you mean us no
text: Jonnie slowly lowers his weapon, but remains on guard.
text: Rock silently directs his partner's attention to--
speaker_heading: WINDSPLITTER
text: Who grazes near the train, waiting for Jonnie. Both men tak:
text: note of the antelope-meat Windsplitter carries.
text: Carlo turns a friendly eye back to Jonnie.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: You have been fortunate in the hunt.
dialog: You should thank the gods.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: If I ever see one, I will.
scene_heading: EXT. GROUND -- NEXT TO THE TRAIN -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Jonnie hands strips of dried meat to Carlo and Rock, who
text: veverently bow their heads, holding the food up to the heaven:
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: The monsters like to hunt in the dark.
dialog: We better find shelter...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: J
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SHOPPING MALL -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The snow really coming down now. Windsplitter follows our trio
text: through a white carpeted parking lot, taking shelter inside a--
scene_heading: INT. SHOPPING MALL -- CONTINUOUS
text: A brightly decorated plastic CHRISTMAS TREE stands among the rea!
text: trees growing up through the floor. A CD of SILENT NIGHT loops
text: endlessly from the few speakers in the mall that still work.
scene_heading: INT. DEPARTMENT STORE -- SECOND FLOOR -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Our trio head into a department store, but Carlo and Rock freeze
text: their tracks with sickened expressions.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: «Whatever those poor bastards did,
dialog: they must have really angered the gods.
text: Rock silently nods, appalled by the sight of--
text: MANNEQUINS lying broken on the floor. Many of these ‘frozen
text: people’ missing limbs, not to mention their genitalia. Nearby..
text: Jonnie stands, curious, in front of a large plate-glass window tl
text: makes up an entire wall. Outside, he can see the snow falling, }
text: when he tries to touch it, an ‘invisible force’ keeps stopping h:
speaker_heading: KABLAM! 4
text: Ina sudden flash of light, Carlo is hurled back off his feet.
text: His body crashes hard to the ground, twitches once, then falls
dialog: deadly still.
text: And out of the shadows behind Rock steps a truly nightmarish
text: figure. Like the parson's drawing of the monster, but worse...
text: Over nine feet tall with glowing amber eyes. Razor sharp talons
text: on his claws. Thick bone-like structures for eyebrows and lips.
text: The PSYCHLO aims his BLAST-GUN dead center on Rock and fires--
text: As Jonnie's KILL-CLUB flies through the air--
text: Knocking into the firing weapon, causing the shot to go wide.
text: Jonnie and Rock take off through the store, bolting through a
text: maze of aisles which lead them through a doorway--
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL -- CONTINUOUS
text: Our guys sprint up the stairs. The sound of deadly pursuit
text: getting louder behind them as they burst out onto--
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF -- CONTINUOUS
text: The only way off the two-story building is to jump. And the
text: frozen ground below doesn't make this too appealing an option.
dialog: 
dialog: Nee
text: i the Psychlo rushing through the doorway behind them,
text: Jonnie and Rock throw themselves off the side of the building--
scene_heading: EXT. SNOW COVERED GROUND ~~ CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie hits the ground, rolling to his feet~-
text: Rock isn't as fortunate and lands at a bad angle, SNAPPING his
text: on impact. He tries to climb to his feet, but the broken leg
text: buckles, sending him collapsing back <o the snow.
text: Jonnie turns back to help him--
text: He gives a loud whistle and...
scene_heading: EXT. SHOPPING MALL -~- CONTINUOUS
text: Windsplitter gallops out of the mall. Hooves churning up a fl
text: of snow as he races to Jonnie-- .
text: The Psychlo pauses to look down at...
text: ROCK, who trembles in terror. Pleading to the stars overhead--
speaker_heading: ROCK ‘
dialog: ..-Help me please. I have lived a-_
dialog: devoted life...
text: But the twinkling lights seem indifferent to his plight.
text: Jonnie watches helplessly as the Psychlo slams down a lever on
text: the side of the gun, then aims it down at Rock. KABBLAM!
text: A gaping hole blown through Rock's chest.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: sees "Nat -ooKS Like insect. Thirty feet Long and
dialog: Ty tWE.ve Teer Ge =o side. And smootn. Sitting
dialog: tne middie of tne wide oath.
dialog: 
dialog: and runs for open country.
text: vonnie giances back, to where the thing rises three feet
text: above the cround. Ana moves forward.
text: vonnie passes one corner, =hen another. The thing falling
dialog: behind.
text: He swerves Windsplitter up a sidestreet, reaches another
text: corner and again turnes. He heads for the open country.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 4
dialog: 
text: He can hear the roaring of the thing somewhere beyond the
text: rubble. He listens, holding his breath. The position of the
text: roar changing. Shifting to the right.
text: The thing somehow blocks the street ahead of him and then
text: goes on, planning to come up behind him.
text: He is trapped. There is no panic in him now. He slows the
text: hard pounding of his heart. The thing to do is wait until the
text: monster is right in the street behind him-then go over that
text: barricade a fallen building had become.
text: He sidles Windsplitter back to get a good run.
text: The thing is roaring down the side path behind him. Now it is
text: turning. He glances back. There it is, wisps of smoke coming
text: out of its nostrils.
text: Jonnie put the heel to Windsplitter. He yanks on the lead
dialog: rope.”
text: And sprints at the barricade. Rough and full of loose stones.
dialog: Dangerous. . :
text: Up they scramble. Rubble slides. 8Sut up they go. All the way
text: to the top. One glance back shows...
text: ++.the thing rolling up to the very bottom of the barricade.
text: But he's over the barr:cade. He hits the street before him at
dialog: a run and keeps vrur
dialog: 
text: Jonnie swerves =hrougn =: cneckxerooard of paths, edging to the
dialog: open country.
text: Further and further. The buildings thinning. Open country
text: between two structures to his right. He skids down off the
text: embankment and races for freedom. Windsplitter puffing.
text: He strains his eyes, watching.
dialog: There it is!
text: It slides out from among the buildings and starts straight
text: toward him.
dialog: 
dialog: \
dialog: ' f him the
text: a suddenl there's a SHEET OF FLAME. Ahead ©
text: right-hand baitaing explodes apart. Its top slides slowly h
text: down and into the street anead, blocking it. Spattered wit
text: dust, Jonnie hauls up short.
text: He puts the horse =p to a run.
text: The thing not only closes the distance but starts to pass.
text: Jonnie swerves at right angies.
text: The thing banks into a turn and flashes by him, well ahead,
text: turns and blocks his way.
text: Jonnie pulls up. He turns around and began to run away from
dialog: it.
text: It let out a blasting roar, scorches by him and again stops,
text: blocking his way.
text: Jonnie's face tightens into determination.
text: Thong solid on his wrist.
text: Walking Windsplitter, he moves up ahead of the thing. It
text: doesn't.move. He goes about a hundred feet.in front of the
text: thing. It doesn't move. He carefully spots the position of a
text: slitted eye.
text: And whirls the kill club. And puts 4 heel to Windsplitter.
text: They race straight at the thing.
text: The kill club, carried with the full speed of the running
text: horse, whooshes down straight at the slitted eye.
text: The crash of impact is deafening.
text: Jonnie slows beyond the thing. It had not moved.
text: He trots Windsplitter back to the original position, a
text: hundred feet in front of the thing. He turns and makes ready
dialog: for a second run.
text: He touches a heel. Windspiizter piunaes forward.
text: And then a great gout of yeliow blooms out from between the
dialog: eyes.
text: Jonnie is struck a blow like all the winds of Highpeak rolled
dialog: into one.
text: Windsplitter catches the full force of it. Up into the air go
text: horse and rider. Down they come with a shuddering crash,
dialog: against the earth.
dialog: 
dialog: ©
scene_heading: IN _THE DARKNESS:
text: There's an ethereal, almost otherworldly WAILING. Then a stab of
dialog: light and--
scene_heading: EXT. ABOVE THE MALL -- DAWN
text: The shopping mall falls away below as we rise higher and higher
text: above it. Like a soul returning to heaven... |
dialog: But for some reason, we're looking down through prison-like BARS. |
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE TO:
text: Jonnie's face, as he starts to come to. Disorientated, he looks
text: around. A handful of men stare back at him, each one trying to
text: hide how terrified they are. And PULLING BACK we can see...
text: Jonnie and the men are imprisoned in a cargo cage suspended from
dialog: the underbelly of a--
scene_heading: EXT. PSYCHLO AERIAL TRANSPORT VEHICLE
text: Which climbs up vertically into the sky with engines wailing,
text: then rockets forward with impressive speed.
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: An icy wind blasts through the cage. But the cold is the least c
text: Jonnie's concern as he spots Carlo lying motionless in the corner
text: A pair of young, scrappy-looking twins, MICKEY and SAMMY, give Jc
text: a reassuring look. They shout to be heard over the howling wind-
speaker_heading: MICKEY
text: If the monster's fire-stick doesn't
dialog: make a hole in you, you go to sleep.
speaker_heading: SAMMY
dialog: But you wake-up--
text: And sure enough, Carlo groggily begins to stir. Relieved to see
text: Jonnie. But then he looks around for Rock...
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT -- AERIAL TRANSPORT VEHICLE -- LATER THAT DAY
text: The Psychlo banks the transport vehicle around a mountain,
text: revealing a massive TRANSPARENT DOME covering a large city below.
text: Getting closer, we can see Mile High Stadium. And behind it, the
text: distinctive design of Denver International Airport....
scene_heading: EXT. DOME -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The vehicle hovers down, and with the sound of a magnetic field
text: disengaging, deposits the cage into the back of a flatbed truck.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAGE -- MOMENTS LATER
text: The Psychlo lumbers in with box-shaped AIR-FILTRATION UNITS, eact
text: with a thin tube attached to it. He starts to slide one of these
text: tubes into Jonnie's nose, but Jonnie knocks the creature's paw aw
text: The Psychlo growls, hurling Jonnie viciously across the cage--
speaker_heading: JONNIE - |
text: Slams into the bars, sliding down to the floor, where the Psychle
text: unceremoniously jams the tube up Jonnie's nose.
scene_heading: EXT. DOME -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The Psychlo drives the flatbed.transport truck with the cargo cag
text: it through an ENTRY PORT, complete with mammoth air-lock chambers
text: Jonnie studies everything with the trained eye of a skilled hunte:
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DOME -- CONTINUOUS
text: The dome covering Denver is so enormous, it has its own weather.
text: And right now, a dark drizzle falls onto the city, which looks
dialog: much like it does today, save for two things... .
text: A grimy layer of mining soot covers the place. And for some
dialog: reason, most of the buildings have been painted purple. | .
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK ~-- DRIVER'S CABIN -- CONTINUOUS
text: The Psychlo removes the tube from his own nose and leans out the
text: window, taking a deep, .contented breath...
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAGE -- BACK OF THE TRUCK -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie experiments with removing his own tube... But he immediatel
text: has trouble breathing. Eyes going glassy. He replaces the tube a
text: fast as he can. Carlo gives him a pointed look.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER STREET -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The sounds of HEAVY INDUSTRY fill the air as the truck turns down
text: street, passing a shift of PSYCHLO LABORERS trudging off with lunc
text: pails to go work in the mines and smelting plants.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE COMPLEX-~ A LITTLE LATER
text: The Psychlo backs the truck up to a loading dock and HONKS.
text: Several GUARDS head over with a PROCESSING CLERK as the Psychlo
text: “Human-Slave Wrangler" swings open the cargo cage.
text: And now we can see that while this Psychlo is an imposing figure
text: at nine feet tall, he's actually a bit of a runt. The other
dialog: Psychlos are all a good foot or two taller...
text: Including the clerk, who takes one look at Jonnie and the others
text: and drills a hard stare into the undersized Psychlo "wrangler".
dialog: a)
speaker_heading: PSYCHLO CLERK
dialog: You're gone three days and you only
dialog: caught six of them?!
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie studies the monsters closely, but from his P.O.v., allt
text: hears is an unintelligible machine-like clicking sound of theiz
text: alien language. He turns a questioning eye to Carlo...
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: And even though Jonnie doesn't know what the Psychlos are arguir
dialog: about, he knows one thing. They're not paying him any attentior
text: So he moves like a streak out the cage door. Carlo right behinc
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE COMPLEX -~ CONTINUOUS
text: But the wrangler isn't about to lose any more of his ‘cargo’ anc
text: whirls, snatching Jonnie, then lunges for Carlo--
text: But Carlo manages to twist out of reach of the creature's talons
text: sprint away through the warehouse. The wrangler pulls his gun.
scene_heading: PSYCHLO CLERK .
dialog: Don't kill it! . We can't use it if it's’
dialog: dead-- .
text: The wrangler gives him a snide, ‘How stupid do you think I am?',
text: look. Jonnie watches from the ground as--
text: The Psychlo slides a lever above the blast-gun's trigger-guard
text: into an up position, then takes aim and FIRES--
text: Carlo is knocked flat as the blue-bolt slams into him. His body
text: lies motionless, but intact, on the ground.
text: The Psychlo holsters his fire-arm and scoops up Jonnie. Starts
dialog: to toss him back into the cage but--
dialog: ident li he! 1 i esi é hi
text: Jonnie has the weapon. And is pointing it straight at him. The
text: wrangler sniggers. The same reaction from the other Psychlos...
text: It's like a ‘horse’ has somehow picked up a gun with its hooves.
text: Only, Jonnie slides the weapon's lever into the gown-position.
text: The wrangler is no longer laughing. He reaches down, coaxing
text: Jonnie as if he was some kind of errant pet...
speaker_heading: PSSCHLO WRANGLER
dialog: Come on, boy... Give me the gun..
text: But Jonnie doesn't. So the wrangler lunges for it--
speaker_heading: KABLAM!
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The Psychlo Wrangler stares, stunned at the--
scene_heading: FIST-SIZED HOLE
text: Blown through his chest. He collapses, dead before he hits the
text: ground. The other Psychlos freeze in stunned silence. Then...
text: Burst out in hysterical laughter. That has got to be the goddam
dialog: funniest thing they've ever seen.
text: With the monsters busy laughing, Jonnie makes a break for it.
text: Charging through the warehouse complex and out a doorway--
scene_heading: EXT. STREET -~ OUTSIDE WAREHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Where he barrels straight into--
speaker_heading: TERL
text: Who unlike the Psychlo laborers, wears a senior officer's unifor
text: adorned with impressive gold epaulets, denoting "Chief of Securi
text: His ever present assistant, KER, can't help but snicker at the m
text: collision has splattered over his boss's perfectly pressed attir
text: But Terl doesn't seem to find it amusing. He shuts Ker up with.
text: quick look, then rips Jonnie off his feet--
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Holding the filthy ‘man-animal' out at arm's length, Terl marche
text: inside the warehouse, demanding to ‘know--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Who is responsible for allowing this
dialog: man-animal to run around unsupervised?!
text: The clerk immediately points to the dead wrangler.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: The man-animal shot the wrangler and--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I'm a little pressed for time. Save
dialog: the ‘going-away' jokes for later.
speaker_heading: . CLERK
dialog: No joke, sir. I swear.. The man-
dialog: animal somehow got his gun.. And when he
text: reached for it, the man-animal shot him.
text: The other Psychlos nod, backing this up. Terl consid h.
text: then picks the blaster—gun up geom the ground... ors this,
text: And_calmly hands the weapon to Jonnie.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: (to the clerk)
dialog: Show me.
speaker_heading: Ca
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: ++ -Sir?
speaker_heading: TERL
text: Reach for the gun.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: But sir. It might shoot me.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Sure. It ‘might’. And I ‘might'
dialog: suddenly grow a third arm. we ee
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: But I swear, sir, it shot--
text: Rapidly losing patience, Terl snaps--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: ~-Any reports filed today still have
dialog: My name on it. And you're out of your
dialog: skull if you think I'm going to write
dialog: "Shot By Man-Animal" as the cause of
dialog: death in the Security Field Report,
dialog: unless I see it with my own eyes.
dialog: (end of discussion) -
dialog: This isn't a request, it's an order.
text: Knowing he's treading on dangerous ground, the clerk stares at Te:
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: ...But with all respect, sir, if I
dialog: follow that order, I may get killed.
text: Terl returns his stare without blinking.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: The regulations are quite clear.
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: If you refuse to obey the order, it's a
dialog: certainty that you will be killed
text: The clerk swallows hard, then turns to Jonnie and...
text: Lunges for the gun, trying to grab it before--
speaker_heading: KABLAM!
text: Jonnie blasts a hole through the clerk's chest
text: Terl stares in disbei:ef. But Jonnie's not finished. A bigger
text: Psychlo leaps up and charges. Roaring.
text: Jonnie stumbles backward.
dialog: 
text: An enormous paw blurs in the air, coming at him. Talons rake
text: the side of his face.
text: Jonnie has the gun in position, and fires at the huge chest.
text: He punches blast after blast into it, driving him back.
text: Terl jerks the gun from Jonnie's hands, and sends a swipe
text: across his chest that sends him crumbling to the ground.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: ---Well, I'll te camned.
scene_heading: INT. EMPLOYEE RECREATION PALL -- A LITTLE LATER
text: A lively joint wher2 a bunch of Psychlo laborers let off steam
text: playing LASER-BASH. Others consume libations while slapping and
text: pinching the asses of the female Psychlo wait-staff who pass by.
text: Terl plops onto a stool at the bar, but before he can order, he's
text: served a saucepan full of KERBANGO, a thick oily beverage.
speaker_heading: . BARTENDER
dialog: When the best security chief this planet
dialog: ever had is leaving, the least I can do
dialog: js buy him a pan of kerbango on the
dialog: house.
text: Terl's eyes slit in suspicion. The bartender shrugs, keeping his
text: voice casual as he continues...
speaker_heading: BARTENDER (cont'd)
dialog: And, of course, I'm sure our little
dialog: agreement is still in effect...
dialog: (making sure)
dialog: Now that you're leaving, that little
dialog: unfortunate incident won't somehow
dialog: ‘magically' appear in my file.
text: Terl helps himself to a shot of kerbango, then explains--
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: As long as you provided me useful
dialog: information, I wouldn't file the report.
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: But now that I'm leaving this pitiful
dialog: excuse for a planet, you will no longer
dialog: be providing me with useful information.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The color drains from the bartender's face. Terl strolls off
text: chuckling, quite pleased with how fun that was. ~
scene_heading: INT. INDIGENOUS LABOR PROCESSING CENTER -- CONTINUOUS
text: A PSYCHLO TECHNICIAN, wearing rubber gloves and a germ mask over
text: face, uses laser-scissors to cut the animal skins off of Jonnie.
text: The skins get tossed into an INCINERATOR. The technician then
text: reaches over and yanks Chrissy's medallion from Jonnie's neck.
text: Jonnie tries to grab it back, but the technician swats him away
text: like he was an insect, then holds up the object to see what was
dialog: so damn important to the man-animal...
text: And we can now see Chrissy's ‘shiny’ medallion is a SILVER DOLLA
scene_heading: PSYCHLO TECHNICIAN
dialog: Anyone want this primitive little
dialog: trinket?
text: Nobody does. So the technician tosses it into the incinerator.
text: As Jonnie watches Chrissy's medallion get consumed by the flames
text: something deep and dangerous burns in his eyes.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER MINING SITE -- CONTINUOUS an
text: A long line of humans, chained to stakes like leashed dogs, hunc
text: a massive conveyor belt spewing out a constant discharge of crus
text: rocks. The humans separate out the OAR, which they place into--
text: Psychlo-sized BASKETS, which wouldn't be too difficult for a
text: Psychlo to carry, but it's back-breaking work for the humans
text: hauling them across a large field to a...
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM
text: Psychlo Guards use rod-like devices to prod the slower slaves al
text: with sinister blasts of raw electricity.
speaker_heading: A GROUND CART
text: Glides by with Ker at the wheel.
text: Terl is in the rear, gazing at the humans with the indifference
text: someone might have driving past a dairy farm full of cows.
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- THAT DAY
text: With the platform loaded with baskets of ore, an ALARM sounds an
text: the Psychlos immediately don protective goggles and ear-plugs.
dialog: The humans have no such gear to protect them as...
text: The HUM of large generators starts to fill the air. Growing
text: louder as they work-up to full power and there's suddenly--
text: An EAR-SPLITTING explosion of sound and BLINDING FLASH of light
text: as all the baskets of ore on the platform vanish. $
text: A brief moment of quiet respite. Then the deafening roar and
text: blazing light happens again. And this time...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -~ MOMENTS LATER
text: Bundreds of PSYCHLO LABORERS suddenly appear on the platform,
dialog: along with--
scene_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER ZETE
text: Who wears the finest of silk suits and carries a solid gold
text: briefcase. Terl and Ker quickly greet him...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Welcome, your Excellency. As this
dialog: planet's senior security officer, it
dialog: would be my pleasure to expedite your
dialog: on-planet clearance through security--
text: But the District Manager isn't listening. He's staring confused
text: through the transparent dome at the snow-capped Rocky mountains.
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: Does all of Earth look like this?
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: -..I'm afraid so.
speaker_heading: qu 2 DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: I was told this planet was ugly...
text: Be peers up at a fluffy cloud drifting across a clear blue sky.
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER (cont'd)
dialog: But it's got to be the ugliest crap~hole
dialog: in the entire universe!
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I couldn't agree more, sir. Now if
dialog: you'll please follow me...
text: He finally manages to get the District Manager through security,
text: then seizes the opportunity to introduce Ker.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: This is Executive-Assistant Ker. He's
dialog: been fully trained to take-over as
dialog: Security Chief, so there'll be no
dialog: disruptions with my transfer--
text: He takes one last sickened look at the humans, declaring--
scene_heading: | , DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: 5 . We'll be doing the universe a favor by
dialog: we exterminating the whole lot of them
dialog: once we finish mining-out their
dialog: miserable little planet.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. INDIGENOUS LABOR IDENTIFICATION STATION -- CONTINUOUS
text: A pair of Psychlo guards hold Jonnie down on a steel table as an
scene_heading: IDENTIFICATION TECHNICIAN presses a--
scene_heading: SEARING-HOT IRON
text: Into Jonnie's arm, branding him with an ID number. Jonnie stares
text: the technician in the eye, refusing to acknowledge the pain.
text: Amused, the technician digs the burning iron harder into Jonnie's
text: flesh. Jonnie's eyes bulge, but he remains steely silent...
text: The guards release Jonnie and shove him toward the next station,
text: then turn and grab the next human slave in line, which is--
text: MICKEY. The guards drag the young twin, kicking and screaming, t«
text: the branding table and pin him down as the technician lowers the
text: iron toward the trembling youngster's exposed flesh--
text: Only the iron is no longer in his hands.
text: Wielding it like a weapon, Jonnie knocks the stunned guards away
text: from Mickey, then pivots with blurring speed--
dialog: = i ’ ian's .
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: How Do You Like It--
text: As the technician howls in pain, a mass of guards swarm Jonnie,
text: viciously clubbing him to the ground.
scene_heading: INT. BANK OF DENVER -- LOBBY -- CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP'S VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: --I'm honored by your visit, your
dialog: Excellency.
text: The obese PLANETSHIP waddles over, flanked by his smarmy-looking
text: ASSISTANT. They shake paws with the District Manager, then lead
text: him across the lobby. Terl and Ker follow.
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: .-.-How do you stand it?
text: He motions out a window at a tree-filled park.
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER (cont'd)
dialog: Having to spend each day looking out at
text: all that green. And a blue sky.
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: Oh no. We make the support staff take
text: the offices with the views.
dialog: (winks )
dialog: While we get the good digs.
text: He ushers evervone into an elawatn~
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR -- CONTINUOUS
text: And pushes the button for the BASEMENT. The elevator lurches dow
text: The Assistant Planetship seizes the opportunity to...
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP
dialog: I'm sure you'll find it interesting to
dialog: know, sir, that we were able to use the
dialog: planet's indigenous power-generation
dialog: systems. That way we didn't have to
dialog: build our own. It was actually my idea.
dialog: (basks in the glory of)
dialog: And unless I'm mistaken, my idea has
dialog: already saved the corporation well over
dialog: six-hundred thousand credits--
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: --I'm afraid you're mistaken.
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP
dialog: «.Sir?
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: I don't find it interesting at all.
text: The Assistant Planetship, crushed, manages a polite nod. Terl
text: suppresses a smile. He likes the District Manager's style.
scene_heading: INT. INDIGENOUS LABOR PROCESSING CENTER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie, bloody and bruised, but alive, hobbles dow a ‘steel
dialog: hallway with the other now branded slaves, when--
text: The Psychlos open up with HIGH POWERED HOSES.
text: A solid stream of water savagely blasts into the defenseless
text: humans as the Psychlos hose down the dirty man-animals.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT -- LATER THAT DAY
text: Terl and the other Psychlo executives sits around a conference té
text: in a windowless dungeon. of a room which has been painted purple.
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: «+I will approve additional labor
dialog: resources be sent here by end of the
dialog: quarter-cycle. And I believe that does
dialog: it, except for your long overdue
dialog: transfer.
text: He turns and offers Terl a friendly smile.
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER (cont'd)
dialog: You must be looking forward to getting
dialog: off this disgusting excuse of a planet.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I just want to serve the corporation in
dialog: whatever way they deem best, sir.
dialog: 
dialog: ©
scene_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER .
dialog: very admirable. And you've done a first-
dialog: rate job here as interim security chief.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: (modestly)
dialog: Thank you, sir. I've done my best--
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: ~-We've decided to keep you here for
dialog: another fifty cycles.
dialog: (turning the 'dagger')
dialog: With endless options for renewal. The
dialog: options, of course, being at Home
dialog: Office's discretion. Not yours.
text: Terl reacts like he was just given a death sentence. The
text: District Manager leans forward, giving him a knowing look--
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER (cont'd)
dialog: The senator has a lot of friends.
scene_heading: EXT. MINING SITE -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Jonnie, Carlo and the rest of the new ‘abductees’ are issued
text: baskets and shoved into line with the rest of the slaves.
text: Concerned by his friend's battered condition, Carlo admonishes..
dialog: There's no point in trying to fight
dialog: these things. At least not if you want
dialog: to keep on living.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Look around you. This ain't exactly
dialog: living--
text: In the background, a ground cart passed by.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRIC CART -- CONTINUOUS
text: Ker chauffeurs at the wheel. In the back seat, Terl lowers his
text: voice, so only the District Manager can hear.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: -+-Would you please explain to the
dialog: senator that if I even had an inkling it
dialog: was his daughter, I never would have--
speaker_heading: DISTRICT MANAGER
dialog: --The senator's exact words to me were,
dialog: and I'm quoting, “If that blasted Terl
text: tries to talk his way out of it, have
text: him vaporized on the spot".
text: Leaving Terl with that thought, the District Manager strides up
text: the platform, relieved to be leaving this crappy little planet.
scene_heading: INT. EMPLOYEE RECREATION HALL -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The place is packed and loud. The newly arrived Psychlo workers
text: getting plastered on kerbango while losing money paw-over-fist i
text: laser bash and other assorted rigged games of ‘chance’.
text: Terl storms up to the bar. The bartender looks up, surprised.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: You're still here.
text: And something suddenly snaps deep inside Terl. He grabs Ker,
text: pulling him close, the words coming fast and furious--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I can assure you I was not groomed
dialog: since birth to get some ‘cushy job‘
dialog: that even a moron like you could
dialog: perform! While you were trying to
dialog: learn to spell your name, I was being
dialog: trained how to conquer galaxies! And
dialog: doing anything less is a disgrace to my
dialog: entire family line--
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER 200 -- THAT NIGHT
text: Psychlo guards patrol the Denver 200, keeping an eye on the mas:
text: humans locked-up for the night. Inside one of the many cages..
scene_heading: INT. CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie, Carlo and several dozen men crowd around a small fire as
text: GAS TRUCK pulls up. A Psychlo guard inserts the truck's giant t
text: through the bars, but instead of pumping out petrol...
text: The hose discharges a green sludge-like food substance into a
text: trough. Jonnie starts over to the ‘dinner', but is stopped by
text: FLOYD, a hulking brute of a man almost as large as a Psychlo.
speaker_heading: FLOYD
dialog: You're new, so let me explain how things
dialog: work. I eat first. Then my men eat.
text: His GANG steps forward. All big and dangerous looking.
scene_heading: EXT. ZOO CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: The Psychlo finishes discharging the food and retracts the hose.
text: From his P.O.V., Jonnie and Floyd's confrontation is unintelligi
text: like animals "talking" to each other in a z00, as...
scene_heading: INT. ZOO CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: With his gang backing him up, Floyd explains to Jonnie--
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FLOYD
dialog: After we're done, if there's any food
dialog: left, you can have it with the others.
text: Given how malnourished the ‘others’ look, it doesn't appear that
dialog: there's usually much food left.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: That's how it used to work.
text: With blinding speed, Jonnie scoops up a flaming log from the
dialog: fire, and before Floyd can react-- P 3 f09
text: Jonnie SLAMS the club-like wood, full-force, into Floyd's face,
text: dropping him hard to the ground. Only a moment later...
text: And other than a bloody nose, he shows no effect from the shot he
text: just took. Jonnie smashes him again--
dialog: ‘But this time the big brute is ready for it, so all it seems to
text: do is just piss him off. He grabs Jonnie by the throat and
text: begins to choke the life from him.
text: Jonnie desperately tries to break-free, but Floyd is too strong.
text: ‘He holds Jonnie out at arm's length, preventing Jonnie from
text: getting at him as he continues to brutally strangle Jonnie.
text: And with his attacker finally close enough to reach, Jonnie’ s
text: hand rockets out, p:
text: Floyd staggers back, struggling to breath. With his eyes going g:
text: Floyd releases Jonnie and focuses on reinserting the tube as--
text: Jonnie locks his hands together and swings them like a baseball
text: bat, delivering a tremendous blow to Floyd's jaw.
text: Floyd falls to the ground. And this time he stays there, out for
text: the count. Jonnie takes mercy on the big man and sticks the tube
text: back into his nose, then heads over to the trough...
text: But realizes everyone else is holding back, respectfully letting
text: him eat first. Jonnie shakes his head, declaring--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
text: Everyone eats at the same time.
text: The men all rush the trough...
dialog: The slop might be disgusting, but at least it's sustenance. And
text: PULLING BACK, we realize we're watching this on...
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: A wall full of MONITORS showing live feeds from all over the dome
text: city. On an adjacent wall--
text: A sign reads: YouR CHIEF OF SECURITY IS...
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Ker despondently removes his picture from under the sign, and
text: with an audible sigh, hammers Terl's picture back up.
text: And PULLING BACK yet again, we realize we're watching this on...
scene_heading: INT. TERL'S LIVING QUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: A lone monitor perched next to a bed, where Terl opens a large--
speaker_heading: FOOTLOCKER
text: All neatly packed for what should have been his return home.
text: Terl almost looks like he's going to cry as he starts to unpack.
text: But he suddenly stops. Sensing it...
text: His eyes instinctively going to the monitor, which shows--
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS ~~ CONTINUOUS
text: Ker peering out the windows, making sure no one is watching,
text: before reaching into his.. tol. oe
speaker_heading: DESK
text: Inside the hidden false bottom of a drawer, Ker pulls out of a
text: SURVEILLANCE PHOTO of a mountain range, and...
speaker_heading: TERL'S DESK
text: Deposits tlie document at the bottom of an "In-Basket" on Terl's de
text: but suddenly freezes as he can hear someone approaching the door--
text: Ker dives across the room back to his own desk, snatching-up a
text: crossword puzzle, which he pretends to be working on as...
text: Terl marches in and heads straight to his desk, where he grabs
text: the surveillance photo. Ker tries to play it cool.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: I was wondering when you were going to
dialog: look at that. It same in last week and
dialog: I put it straight in your--
speaker_heading: . TERL
dialog: If you're going to lie to me, at least
dialog: have the decency to do a credible job.
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: So, I don't look like a complete idiot
dialog: for having tried to train you.
text: He sharply jabs a talon toward Ker's secret hiding place. Ker's
text: face goes death-white. How could Terl possibly know?
text: But then Ker suddenly realizes. His eyes probing the room as-~
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: You said we use picto-cameras to spy on
dialog: other offices. But under no circumstance
dialog: do we spy on our own office!
dialog: 
dialog: |
dialog: |
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: That's right. We don't. cee cee ne
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: I do.
dialog: (re: the photo) |
dialog: Start talking.
text: Given the look in Terl's eyes, Ker decides his best chance is to
dialog: come clean, and to do it fast-- :
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: The photo's from last week's recon
text: drone. It shows a glacier that just
text: split open. It exposed a gold vein...
text: Terl glances at the photo, then gives Ker a knowing look.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: And you were going to wait until after
dialog: I transferred to turn it in, so you
dialog: could get all the credit for it,
dialog: yourself.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: (sheepish nod)
dialog: I didn't think you'd mind.
text: He regrets it the moment he said it. Braces himself for the
dialog: punishment he knows must be coming. But surprisingly... - |
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I don't mind. Go ahead.and turn it in.
dialog: (hands Ker the photo)
dialog: But first, pretend you're not a complete
dialog: imbecile and check the compo-gradients.
text: Ker looks down, studying a miniature row of color bars at the
text: very bottom of the photo. His face falls as he realizes...
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: The mountain's full of uranium. No
dialog: Psychlo can get near it without their
text: breath-gas exploding.
dialog: (despondent)
dialog: There's no way to mine the gold--
text: A HAMMER suddenly nails Ker in the back, dropping him to the fl
text: Terl swings again. This time harder. Savagely beating Ker--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: --But What I Do Mind Is That You
dialog: Betrayed Me Over A Lousy Recon Photo!
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: But It's Worthless! You Just Said So
dialog: Yourself!
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Yes! But You Didn't know It Was
dialog: Worthless--
dialog: He ratess +he hammer with lethal intent Bnd withait heaitatin
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Only Ker manages to scramble out of the way at the last minute.
text: He grabs the hammer from Terl and scrambles to his feet-—-
text: But freezes as Terl pulls his BLAST-GUN.
speaker_heading: KER (cont'd)
dialog: You can't shoot me! It's against
dialog: regulations. I'm not just some man-
dialog: animal you can kill for sport--
dialog: |
text: But Terl reaches for the trigger and... Stops. Staring at the
text: gun, his mind racing...
text: Terl's eyes snap to the surveillance photo... Then to a monitor |
text: showing humans working in the mines... Then back to the gun...
text: And_it suddenly connects for Terl.
text: Ker mistakes all of this for same cruel pause before his
text: inevitable execution and continues to plead--
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: Please! I'll Make It Up To You, I
dialog: Swear! Don't Shoot Me--
text: Terl looks shocked by the very suggestion.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Shoot you? My most trusted colleague?
text: Be holsters his gun and throws a friendly arm around Ker.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: Of course not. We've got work to do.
text: Ker clearly has no idea in hell what Terl's talking about, but a:
dialog: long as it involves not getting shot, he's all for it.
speaker_heading: : TERL (con*'d)
dialog: Tomorrow morning, we have to warn the _
dialog: Planetship about the “mutiny”.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: «+-What "mutiny"?
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: The one you're going to pretend is in the
dialog: works, like your life depended on it...
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: Because it does.
scene_heading: EXT. RAVINE -- DUSK
text: The setting sun casts a shadow over CHRISSY, who sits on a rock,
text: keeping a hopeful eye on the far side of the ravine. We get the
text: feeling she spends a lot of time on that rock, watching and wait:
text: A WITHERED HAND grips her shoulder. She turns around to face thi
text: Parson, who gives Chrissy a concerned look--
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PARSON
dialog: He's been gone over three months.
dialog: (the grim reality)
dialog: If the monsters didn't get him, he would
dialog: have been back by now--
text: Chrissy whirls back to the ravine with a relieved smile. But
dialog: there's nothing there. Only now we can here it...
text: The feint sound of GALLOPING HOOFS. Growing louder as--
text: A flash of white is now visible on the far side of the canyon.
text: Rocketing up the incline and over the drawbridge and...
text: Chrissy's smile instantly evaporates as she realizes Windsplitter
dialog: is_returning riderless
scene_heading: INT. DENVER SHOPPING MALL -- THE NEXT MORNING
text: The Planetship and his Assistant are stretched-out on CHAISE-
text: LOUNGES. But right now the Planetship looks anything but relaxec
text: Across from him, Terl and Ker sit on a chaise-lounge next to a
text: sun-lamp. Terl and Ker have concerned looks on their faces.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: .»-And if this worker revolt takes
dialog: place, my informants tell me the first
dialog: order of business will be to separate
dialog: you from your head. © . :
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: Which is why there will be no mutiny!
dialog: (panic in his voice)
dialog: I'm authorizing you to use whatever
dialog: means necessary to stop it.
text: Terl nods, so far so good. Then continues...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Our best chance to prevent this mutiny is
dialog: to increase profits. So we don't have to
dialog: keep cutting the worker's pay.
speaker_heading: PLANETSEIP
dialog: Production equals profits. And I'm
dialog: already bringing in as many new workers
dialog: as possible to boost production.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: But we have to pay those new workers.
text: The Assistant Planetship gives Terl a snide look
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANET:
dialog: Maybe you were absent the day they ,
dialog: taught econo at the academy, Terl
dialog: scoffs) .
dialog: But nobody works for free.
speaker_heading: acne i LE CIE
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Man-animals do.
text: A WAITRESS in low-cut garb slinks over with a tray of drinks, but
text: the Planetship waves her off, keeping his attention on Terl.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: We already use them for manual labor...
dialog: What if we could train them to take-on
dialog: certain additional duties? Like
dialog: operating mining machines.
dialog: (quickly adds)
dialog: That. way we can boost production
dialog: increasing expenses.
text: The Planetship and his Assistant wait for the punch-line. But
text: there isn't one. So they roar with laughter.
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: Man-animals operate a machine?! Have
dialog: you blown a head-gasket?!
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSEIP
dialog: It's hard enough to keep them from
dialog: peeing on the carpet. But mining?!
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: I'd be the laughing stock of the entire
dialog: universe.
dialog: _ Exactly what Terl was hoping he'd say.
speaker_heading: . TERL
dialog: Which is why you should have me take
text: some man-animals and equipment out to a
dialog: remote area. It's better you don't know
dialog: where... And I‘ll try to train them.
dialog: (nonchalant shrug)
dialog: Have them do some test-mining. That way,
text: if it doesn't work out, no one will know.
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: And if it does work, I'll be vaporized.
dialog: It's against the law to train an--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: --According to Regulations: volume 989,
dialog: Article 34-A, Paragraph 19... A
dialog: Planetship faced with a profit-
text: threatening situation, such as a mutiny,
dialog: is relieved of any and all lesser
dialog: ordinances in the pursuit of protecting
dialog: said profits.
text: The Planetship chews on this. He can't argue with the logic.
text: But shakes his head anyway, abruptly declaring--
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: We stick to the original plan! Bring in
text: more workers and they go on half-pay as
dialog: soon as they arrive. And that's final!
dialog: And before anyone can say anything--
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The Planetship JUMPS OFF the third floor railing. And nobody
text: seems the least bit surprised by this. Probably because...
text: The first two floors have been turned into a Psychlo-sized swimm:
text: pool. But instead of water, it's filled with an oily fluid. The
text: Planetship rubs the sludge into his fur, squirming in delight.
scene_heading: EXT. RAVINE -~ CONTINUOUS \
text: Under the glow of first-light, Chrissy rides Windsplitter down t:
speaker_heading: THE DRAWBRIDGE
text: Which the sentries hold in a raised position, preventing her fro
text: leaving. They do this under the supervision of the Parson. -
text: She throws the club with perfect aim, knocking open--
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THE CATCH
text: On the pulley mechanism allowing the rope to unwind, lowering the
text: bridge. And before anyone can react-- .
text: Chrissy gallops Windsplitter like a shot across the bridge,
text: disappearing at full-tilt down the hillside.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER STREET -- THE NEXT MORNING’ .
text: A cold and brutal Psychlo march song plays over loudspeakers as a |
text: long line of exhausted and freezing humans are escorted at gun
text: point out to the mines. In the rear of the procession...
text: The young twins, Mickey and Sammy, work their way over to Jonnie.
speaker_heading: SAMMY
dialog: We hear you're planning a break-out.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: Count us in--
text: A Psychlo thrusts Jonnie forward with the butt of a gun, keeping
text: him moving with the parade of human misery passing by--
speaker_heading: TERL AND KER
text: Who enjoy their breakfast out on the heated patio of the Senior
dialog: Officer Mess Hall.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I did some research on man-animals last
dialog: night. They actually possessed certain
dialog: primitive technical abilities...
dialog: . (beat)
text: Surprisingly, they even managed to fire
text: a crude probe into space.
text: He slaps a picture of PIONEER ONE onto the table. Ker shovels
text: yellow meat into his mouth as he eyes the photo, dubious.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: How do we know it came from man-animals?
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Because they were stupid enough to put a
text: plaque on it with pictures of themselves.
dialog: One of our deep-space recons picked it
dialog: up. And here's the kicker...
text: Be points to the plaque visible in the photo.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: The plaque was made from a rare metal
dialog: that's worth a clanking fortune. And in
dialog: addition to their pictures, the man-
dialog: animals also included full directions to
dialog: their planet. That's how we came here...
dialog: (loves this part)
dialog: They invited us.
text: Ker cracks-up, finding this hysterical. Terl leans forward,
text: giving him a conspiratorial wink.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: «--And of course, all this means the
dialog: plan has a good chance of working.
text: Terl gets up and heads out. Confused, Ker chases after him...
scene_heading: EXT. STREET -~ MOMENTS LATER
text: Catching up to Terl, Ker shakes his head.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: But the plan can't work if the Planetship
dialog: doesn't order us to train man-animals--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: --The Planetship's hiding something. :
dialog: All we have to do is figure out what it
dialog: is, and we'll have leverage over him.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: (getting it)
dialog: And then we can get the gold--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: ---What do you mean we? It's my plan.
text: And before Ker can respond, Terl heads into--
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: ) - And settles in behind his desk. Ker follows on his heels.
speaker_heading: : KER
dialog: Please, sir. You got to let me in on it.
dialog: I barely make any credits in this lousy
dialog: job. And I've got five wives to support.
dialog: 
text: fTerl leans back in his chair, rubbing a talon over his lips,
text: pretending to be thinking this over. And finally...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I don't want to partner-up with an idiot.
dialog: (challenges)
dialog: How do I even know you understand the
dialog: plan?
text: Still reclining in his chair, Terl discreetly reaches under his
text: desk and pushes a GREEN BUTTON. This isn't seen by--
text: Ker, who rising to the task, holds up the surveillance photo of
dialog: the mountain range.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: We train man-animals, who don't need
dialog: breath-gas, to mine the gold for us.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: But Home Planet owns this planet. The
dialog: gold belongs to them.
text: Ker nods, eager to prove he understands the whole plan.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: That's the beauty of it. Home Office
dialog: doesn't even know the gold exists. So
dialog: those corporate crap-heads will never
dialog: know we stole it. It's the perfect crime.
text: He waits for Terl's praise... But instead Terl looks shocked.
dialog: And in the gravest of voices:
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Putting aside the serious violations
dialog: of teaching mining to an inferior race
dialog: and insulting corporate superiors,
dialog: each one in themselves punishable by
dialog: death, you just advocated deliberate
dialog: theft of company resources...
dialog: (resigned sigh)
dialog: So my duty requires me to report you,
dialog: even though you will be vaporized and
dialog: I'll have to train a new assistant.
text: Ker's jaw is practically on the floor. Terl promptly pushes a
text: RED BUTTON under his desk before--
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: But it was your stinking idea!
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Which is why it's a good thing I now
dialog: have a recording of you laying out the
dialog: plan, and me reprimanding you for it.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: What are you talking about?! We don't
dialog: have any recorders planted in here...
dialog: (realizes)
dialog: Let me guess. We don't. But you do.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Terl saunters over to a--
speaker_heading: VAULT
text: —™ Where he carefully positions his body to shield a KEYPAD from
text: \ Ker's view, as he punches in numbers.
dialog: a!
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Consider it part of your education.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: «+Education?!
text: The vault swings open. Terl reaches in past a shelf of Blast-Gu
text: and spare air-tanks, popping a disc fram a RECORDING MACHINE.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Never engage in a criminal activity
dialog: until you set-up a patsy to pin
dialog: everything on in case you're found out.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: Thank-you. That's great advice! But
dialog: why do I have to be the patsy?!
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: So you won't be getting any bright ideas
dialog: about getting rid of ‘ole Terl in order .
dialog: to keep all the gold for yourself. : : ve
speaker_heading: . KER
dialog: But I would never double-cross you!’
speaker_heading: O
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Of course not. Because I'm going to
dialog: set it up that if any ‘unfortunate
dialog: accident’ were to befall me...
dialog: (re: the disc)
dialog: This goes straight to Home Office.
text: He files the disc away within a collection of other such
text: recordings housed within the vault, then shuts and locks the ste
dialog: door.
dialog: Ker isn't happy about this, but what can he do? And to make
dialog: things worse, he realizes...
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: Your whole plan depends on getting
text: leverage over the Planetship.
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: But since there's no way to smuggle a
text: picto-recorder into his office without it
dialog: being detected, how are we going to find
dialog: out what he's hiding--
speaker_heading: . TERL
dialog: } .- --You're the only qualified E-3 Level
dialog: Support Executive on this planet other
dialog: than the Assistant Planetship.
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: So if something were to ‘accidentally’
dialog: happen to him...
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: (catching on)
dialog: ---Zid be the only qualified candidate
dialog: to replace him. Good thinking, sir!
dialog: (rubs his paws together)
dialog: So how do we bump the bastard off?
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Don't worry about that. We'll do it in
dialog: an appropriate style... But right now,
dialog: _we have a more pressing concern.
scene_heading: EXT. GUARD'S TOWER -- ABOVE A MINE SITE -- THAT DAY
text: Terl and Ker enjoy their lunch up in a guard tower overlooking
text: the humans slaving away below. Between mouthfuls, Ter] motions
text: down to JONNIE, who struggles with a heavy load of ore.
text: With almost a sense of begrudging respect, Terl explains...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: +. While that one does seem to be
text: unusually intelligent and resourceful, at
dialog: least for a man-animal, it also seems
dialog: rather defiant. Which is why we'll need
dialog: leverage over it. :
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: Leverage over a man-animal?
text: | _ Merl gives him a sharp look. Hasn't he been paying attention? ;
dialog: The only way it's going to be able to
dialog: operate a mining machine is if it can
dialog: read Psychlo. Which means we have to
dialog: educate it on a learning machine.
text: Ker looks at Terl like he's off his rocker.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: But if anyone found out--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: --Thatis why we need leverage on it, you
dialog: moron! 6&0, no one finds out.
text: Ker stares down at Jonnie, exhausted by the idea.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: We need leverage on the Planetship. And
dialog: now we need leverage on the man-animals.
dialog: I don't know about this plan of yours...
dialog: (mutters)
dialog: It's like we need leverage on everyone.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: That's what makes it so much fun.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN FACILITIES -- LATER THAT DAY
text: Psychlo COOKS mix a disgusting green slop in giant tubs.
speaker_heading: COOK
dialog: .-.We feed them a combination of grass,
dialog: reclaimed fluid wastes, and whatever
dialog: animal carcasses we can find.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Yes, but what would man like to eat?
dialog: (clarifies)
dialog: What would they consider a treat?
speaker_heading: COOK eee eee
dialog: Wow the crap should I know?!
dialog: (quickly adds--)
dialog: Sir.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER STREET -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Ker dejectedly kicks a rock as he follows Terl up the street.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: So much for your "Positive-Forcing".
speaker_heading: TERL .
dialog: It's called Positive-Reinforcement. —
dialog: Whatever. It still sounds like a pretty
dialog: primitive way to get leverage.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Man is a primitive species.
text: Ker can't argue with that, but still shakes his head.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: But we have no idea what the damn things
dialog: like...
scene_heading: INT. DENVER Z00 -- CAGE -- THE NEXT MORNING
text: Ker barges into the cage, and without warning, throws Jonnie,
dialog: Carlo and Floyd into a--
scene_heading: TRANSPORTABLE CARGO CAGE.
text: Mickey and Sammy, trying to stay close to Jonnie, start to
text: scramble into the cage, but Ker swats them away.
scene_heading: EXT. TRANSPORT TRUCK -- MOMENT LATER
text: Ker secures the cargo cage to the back of a flatbed truck and
text: tosses HEAVY JACKETS to our guys.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TRANSPORT TRUCK -- DRIVER'S CABIN -- THAT MORNING
text: Ker, wearing a breath-tube now that he's outside the dome, drive:
text: the flatbed truck up a windy mountain road away from Denver...
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Our guys huddle in their jackets as the cold Colorado air blows
text: through the cage. Floyd shrugs, guessing...
speaker_heading: FLOYD :
dialog: «Must be a mining site out here.
text: Carlo looks to Jonnie for his take on the situation. But
text: Jonnie's attention turns to the cargo cage door as--
text: The truck hits a small bump, causing the door to swing open a
text: crack, betraying that it's not locked.
scene_heading: EXT. THE NEXT BEND -- MOMENTS LATER
text: The flatbed truck rounds a bend, carrying a NOW EMPTY cage.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK AROUND THE BEND -=- CONTINUOUS
dialog: Our guys pick themselves off the road from where they jumped, an: |
text: race away in escape, sprinting up a mountain path.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER -- SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl and Ker, reclining in chairs with their feet up on desks, we
text: TRIO OF MONITORS showing our guys huffing and puffing up the mour.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: They sure are slow. And it looks like
text: they're slowing down even more.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: That's the whole point of this--
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN PATH -- CONTINUOUS
text: Our guys make it up over a small rise, where Floyd suddenly cast:
text: hopeful eye at a CABIN-LIKE BUILDING half-buried up ahead in the
speaker_heading: FLOYD
dialog: Might be some food in there.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: We don't have time. The monsters are
dialog: going to be coming after us.
speaker_heading: FLOYD
dialog: We gotta eat.
dialog: fi
dialog: j
dialog: !
dialog: |
dialog: |
dialog: |
dialog: 
dialog: Our best chance of hiding is up in the
dialog: tree-line. We'll look for food there--
dialog: Carlo hates to take Floyd's side, but...
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: If I don't eat now, I'm not sure I'm
text: going to make it to the tree line.
text: Jonnie starts to respond, but one look at Carlo and Floyd and
text: it's clear they're both on the brink of exhaustion.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Terl proudly points to the monitors, which show our guys forcing
text: open a door and heading into the snow-covered building.
speaker_heading: TERL .
dialog: observe them in their natural habitat.
scene_heading: INT. SNOW COVERED BUILDING -- MOMENTS LATER
text: The building is a long-abandoned SKI CHALET, caught frozen in
text: time.. A thick layer of dust covers everything. In the corner..
text: The SKELETAL REMAINS of some people are scattered near a Christm
text: Tree slumped over a pile of presents for a holiday never celebra
text: But Jonnie suddenly freezes. Grabs a CHAIR.
speaker_heading: FLOYD
dialog: What is it-=
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: +».Lunch.
text: Be launches the chair straight at the--
speaker_heading: CHRISTMAS TREE
text: Sending RATS scurrying out from among the presents. Jonnie dive:
text: onto one of the larger rodents. Carlo and Floyd do likewise.
scene_heading: INT. SKI CHALET -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Carlo and Floyd rip branches from the Christmas tree for kindlin
speaker_heading: : JONNIE
dialog: We don't have time for a fire.
speaker_heading: FLOYD
dialog: We don't have a choice. We gotta cook
dialog: the rats--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: --We have a cheice.
dialog: |
speaker_heading: JONNIE .
dialog: _
dialog: Lo
dialog: : i i ie's thinking.
text: to looks up in dread as he realizes what Jonnie s
text: Sonnie gumons up every ounce of willpower he's got and ...
text: a bi raw .
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: Ker shakes his head, nauseated.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Get off your fat ass! We got the info
dialog: we needed, let's.go round ‘em up.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD -- THAT DAY
text: Our guys sprint up the road, when they begin to hear an ominous
text: MECHANICAL ROAR behind them. Getting louder as...
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD -- BELOW OUR GUYS -- CONTINUOUS
text: An armored Psychlo MARK II GROUND’CAR hurtles above the ground’as_
text: it comes screaming up toward--
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD -- CONTINUOUS
text: Our guys, who charge past a faded ‘Welcome to Aspen' sign on their
dialog: way around a bend--
text: But as they top the hili, they run straight into one of
text: Teri's backup vehicles. Psychios piling out.
dialog: Jonnie goes berserk!
text: The first two Psychlo guards stood no chance. With one
text: backward stride, Jonnie is behind them. He sends them
text: slamming together like egg shells.
text: He catches the gun of one, as that Psychlo goes down and
text: stamps his heel into the side of his skull.
text: He reverses the gun and batters the other Psychlo with shots
text: from a range of three inches.
text: Jonnie drops on one knee, and blows the two last Psychlos who
text: have exited the craft to bits.
text: Five other Psychlos fire in his direction.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Jonnie's gun is empty. He throws it down and picks up the
text: other one. Flips the switch to kill.
text: Totally unmindful of the shots ripping up the ground, running
text: low and firing as he goes, Jonnie races on. The others
text: scattering around him.
text: ‘He kneels behind a Psychlo body and sends a storm of shots
text: into the five. They crash back.
text: Jonnie pounds them into rolling bails of dead flesh. Running,
text: firing as he goes.
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF A GORGE
text: Where they abruptly run out of ground. Standing at the brink of
text: a massive chasm where a--
speaker_heading: BRIDGE
dialog: Used to be. But neglect and repeated winter storms have washed
text: it away into the bottom of a canyon almost too far down to see.
text: And to make matters worse, our guys are surrounded on all sides by
text: sheer vertical mountain face, impossible to climb. They're trappe:
speaker_heading: FLOYD
dialog: What the hell do we do now?!
speaker_heading: “CARLO
dialog: Don't even think about it--
text: This is directed at the look in Jonnie's eyes as he stares across
dialog: the gorge...
speaker_heading: CARLO (cont'd)
dialog: There's no way you're going to make that
dialog: jump!
text: And in fact, the far side of the ravine does seem like an awfully
text: long distance away. But Jonnie backs up, getting as much running
dialog: room as possible.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD -- BEHIND OUR GUYS -- CONTINUOUS
text: The Psychlo Ground Car hurtles around the last bend and comes
text: screaming out onto the clearing as--
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE GORGE ~- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie takes off on a dead sprint, going like hell for the edge of
text: the cliff. Carlo looks away, can't bear the sight.
text: Jonnie doesn't let-up. In fact, he goes faster. Every muscle
text: straining as he races straight for the edge and--
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CANYON -- CONTINUOUS
text: A PSYCHLO FIGHTER PLANE rockets up from the depths of the canyon,
dialog: blocks J ie f Sane
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT -- PSYCHLO FIGETER PLANE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl maneuvers the fighter plane to push Jonnie away from the
text: edge of the gorge.
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE GORGE -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Terl locks our guys into the rear of the ground car as...
text: Ker stares across the canyon to the other side, trying to figure
text: something out. And then it finally dawns on him.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: They must be able to fly.
text: Terl sighs, unlocks the cage and grabs Floyd and tosses him over
dialog: the side of the canyon
speaker_heading: FLOYD
text: Screams in helpless anguish as he plunges to his death.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER WAREHOUSE -- THAT DAY :
text: The remains of a sizable meal are scattered over a giant table ne:
text: to a steel slab, where the ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP partakes in a nap.
text: A door bursts open and Ker marches inside and salutes.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: I need your approval to get some man-
dialog: animal labor units to do some painting
dialog: and cleaning work.
text: He extends a REQUISITION FORM, which the still half-asleep
text: Assistant Planetship signs, but then snidely instructs--
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP
dialog: You tell Terl, that unlike ‘certain
dialog: individuals', I hold an important job.
dialog: So next time he has a request, have him
dialog: send it through proper channels instead
dialog: of disturbing me when I'm busy.
text: Ker nods, then trots out with the signed form. The Assistant
text: Planetship scratches himself, then returns to his snooze.
scene_heading: INT. EMPLOYEE RECREATION HALL -- CONTINUOUS
text: The place is packed with its usual drunken debauchery. In the
text: back, Terl and the bartender engage in a private conversation--
dialog: ~-~ew
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Given that it looks like I'll be
dialog: sticking around for a while, perhaps
dialog: we should be discussing the terms of
dialog: our new deal...
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: (resigned sigh)
dialog: +--What do you want?
scene_heading: INT. EMPLOYEE RECREATION HALL -- LATER THAT AFTERNOON
text: The Assistant Planetship finishes a pan of kerbango when a DOZEN
text: more pans of the narcotic root are placed in front of him.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Congratulations. You're our one-
dialog: thousandth customer of the month!
scene_heading: EXT. ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP'S LIVING QUARTERS -- THAT NIGET |
text: The Assistant Planetship, now smashed out of his mind, stumbles |
dialog: into his room to sleep off the kerbango... '
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- THAT NIGHT
text: A recording of the Assistant Planetship plays on.a monitor: -
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP (ON MONITOR)
dialog: You tell Terl, that unlike ‘certain '
dialog: individuals', I hold an important job--
text: Ker watches as Terl pauses the recording, then expertly imitates
dialog: the Assistant Planetship's voice:
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: "You tell Terl, that unlike ‘certain
dialog: individuals', I hold an important job.”
speaker_heading: KR
dialog: (genuinely impressed)
dialog: How do you do that, sir? You sound just
dialog: like him.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: There are benefits to a first-class
dialog: education.
text: Terl hits play again, mimicking the Assistant Planetship's
text: expressions and gestures playing on the monitor.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- LATER THAT NIGHT
text: Terl masterfully applies prosthetics »nd make-up to his face,
text: thickening his eye bones and darkening the fur on his cheeks...
dialog: Until if we didn't know it was Terl, we'd swear it was the
dialog: Assistant Planetship.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. PSYCHLO RESEARCH CENTER -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Terl, disguised as the Assistant Planetship, shakes his head.
speaker_heading: TERL (AS ASSIST. PLANETSHIP)
dialog: .-When Terl gave this suggestion in the
dialog: meeting, I ridiculed it. Know why?
text: The RESEARCH CLERK doesn't really care, but politely asks:
speaker_heading: RESEARCH CLERK
dialog: No, sir. Why?
scene_heading: TERL (AS ASSIST. PLANETSHIP) .
dialog: I'm no fool. I'm going to steal Terl's
dialog: idea for myself... Because that Terl is
dialog: exceptionally brilliant, don't you think?
speaker_heading: RESEARCH CLERK
dialog: I haven't noticed. He always seemed
dialog: like an arrogant jerk to me.
text: Terl's eyes slit, but he forces himself to stay in character.
speaker_heading: TERL (AS ASSIST. PLANETSHIP)
dialog: .. Well, if you got to know him, I'm
dialog: sure you wouldn't think that. : |
dialog: 
text: The ‘Research Clerk shrugs, returning to the business at hand.
speaker_heading: RESEARCH CLERK
dialog: You want discs on basic Psychlo Language.
dialog: Research Compendium on Man-Animals.
dialog: Mineral and Ore Mining Techniques. And
dialog: Door-Bomb Explosives...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: If I may ask, sir, what's that one for?
text: Terl signs a check-out slip, expertly forging the Assistant
dialog: PRlanetship's sionature, then...
dialog: Making a big production of looking around, making sure no one's
text: listening, Terl leans in with a conspiratorial whisper...
speaker_heading: TERL (AS ASSIST. PLANETSHIP)
dialog: .»..Can you keep a secret?
scene_heading: INT. DENVER Z00 -- CAGE -- 3
dialog: 
text: Ker barges in and snaps a LEASH around Jonnie's neck. Carlo gets
text: same treatment. And as Ker reaches out to grab some more humans-
text: Mickey and Sammy, discreetly slip forward, positioning themselves
dialog: to be selected.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Ker hands’ Psychlo-sized paint-brushes to Carlo, the twins, and
text: WEYWOOD, an older man with a friendly face.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Pointing to giant buckets of purple paint, Ker barks something in
text: Psychlo, which the humans obviously can't understand.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: How we supposed to know what he wants?
speaker_heading: HEYWOOD
dialog: They've made me do this before. Just
dialog: follow what I do and you'll be fine.
text: He dips his brush into a bucket and goes to work painting a wall.
text: Carlo and the twins copy his movements.
scene_heading: INT. BACK ROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl roughly deposits Jonnie and the chair in the center of the
text: room, then grabs a DISC from a pile and slides it into--
text: A LEARNING MACHINE
text: - Which unlike the utilitarian design of most Psychlo machinery, is
text: elegantly designed with sleek simplicity.
text: And once the disc is inserted, the machine emits a holographic im
text: of a CHINKO, which bows twice and puts its six sets of paws over :
text: six eyes, then talks in English, albeit with a strange accent:
speaker_heading: CHINKO VOICE (FROM THE MACHINE)
dialog: Excuse me, but I am your instructor if
dialog: you will forgive such arrogance, for I do
dialog: not have the honor to be a Psychlo. I am
dialog: but a lowly Chinko Language Slave in the
dialog: Department of Culture and Ethnology.
text: The holographic image bows again, then...
speaker_heading: CHINKO VOICE (FROM THE MACHINE)
dialog: Please forgive my pretension as I try
dialog: to educate you in Psychlo, the Noble
dialog: language of Conquerors...
text: An intense bright shaft of BLUE LIGHT shoots out of the machine,
text: striking Jonnie in the eyes...
speaker_heading: CHINKO VOICE (FROM THE MACHINE)
dialog: This machine is designed for pan-species
dialog: communication, and utilizes subconscious
dialog: absorption, allowing for instantaneous
dialog: comprehension.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- LATER THAT DAY
text: A somber Psychlo war song plays from speakers as Carlo, Heywood
text: and the twins paint the walls a fresh coat of purple.
text: Terl happily hums along to the music as he attaches some kind of
text: RED-SQUARE to a choke collar. Ker is camped-out at his own desk,
text: looking through some holographic pornography.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BACK ROOM -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The blue light beaming at Jonnie's eyes clicks off. And staying
dialog: in Jonnie's P.0,V.:
text: Terl leans down to Jonnie, speaking very slowly, extra-enunciatin
dialog: each syllable... :
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: ‘Hello...there...Do...You...Understand...
dialog: What... I'm... Saying?...
text: Jonnie can understand, but feigns a blank expression, pretending
text: he doesn't. Terl dangles a DEAD RAT in front of Jonnie's eyes.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Are...You...Hungry...Little...Guy?..
text: But Jonnie keeps up his blank-face routine.
text: Terl continues to ‘tease’ him with the rodent for a few beats,
text: then pulls it away and restarts the machine, turning to Ker.
speaker_heading: . TERL (cont'd)
dialog: Obviously, this is going to take a :
dialog: while. We might as well go get ourselves
dialog: some lunch.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl and Ker head out the door. The moment they're gone, Carlo’
dialog: charges into--
scene_heading: INT. BACK ROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: And tackles Jonnie out of the chair, ‘saving’ him from the blue
text: beam bombarding his eyes.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: Told you your attitude was going to get
dialog: you into trouble. That's why the monsters
dialog: singled you out for the torture machine.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I'm not sure what it is, but it's not
dialog: torture. It's like sleeping. But when
dialog: you wake-up, you somehow know things...
dialog: (explains)
dialog: Like I can now understand what the
text: monsters are saying when they speak.
text: Heywood appears in the doorway with a concerned look.
speaker_heading: HEYWOOD
dialog: «--What's going on?
text: Carlo points to the Learning Machine with religious awe.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: It's a god-machine that the monsters must
dialog: have stolen. It makes you know things.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: G
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I don't know if it's a god-machine, but I
dialog: do know I'm going to use it to learn as
dialog: much as I can, so I can figure out how
dialog: the hell we're going to get out of here.
text: _ Before Heywood can protest, Jonnie reassures him--
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: If you can keep an eye out and give me
dialog: a little bit of warning before the
dialog: monsters come back, I won't be putting
dialog: any of you.in danger.
text: Heywood is concerned, but moves back to a window, keeping a
text: vigilant eye on the street outside as...
text: Jonnie inserts a new disc into the Learning Machine.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER 200 -- CAGE -- NIGHT
text: In the corner of the cage, out of view of the others, Jonnie uses
text: a stick to fervently work out mathematical equations in the dirt.
text: Carlo, Heywood and the twins watch, trying to make sense of the
dialog: foreign symbols. :
speaker_heading: SAMMY :
dialog: --.So, that's what the monster's’
dialog: language looks like.
text: Jonnie shakes his head, his eyes shining with the rapture of pure
text: knowledge as he explains... .
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: This is mathematics. The unifying ~
dialog: language of the entire universe. Look.
scene_heading: EXT. EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S MESS HALL -~- THE NEXT DAY
text: Ker shrugs between mouthfuls of his lunch.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: ---So it's taking a bit longer with the
dialog: man-animals than we thought. But they
dialog: can't be completely brainless if they
dialog: were able to fire a probe into space~-
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: ---I'm not sure the man-animals did fire
dialog: that probe into space.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: But you said there was a plaque on it
text: with the man-animal's picture,
text: Terl slowly sips a pan of kerbango as he explains.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: What if there was a species on a
dialog: different planet that detested man-
dialog: animals, and it's easy to see why they
dialog: would... And this other species, wanting
dialog: man-animals exterminated, sent the probe
dialog: to us with directions to the man-animal's
dialog: planet.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I hadn't thought of that. It's very
dialog: clever, sir.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie watching Terl and Ker on a monitor, while reading through
text: a Psychlo FIELD OPERATIONS MANUAL.
text: In the rear of the room, the rest of the guys push and pull at
text: the handle to the massive VAULT.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: {translating from the manual)
dialog: The Security-Chief should secure the
text: field vault with an eight-digit
dialog: combination code of his selection. He
dialog: should not write this code down, or
dialog: tell it to anyone else. And he
dialog: shouldn't simply use his Employee ID
dialog: number, but be more clever than that.
text: Carlo gives Jonnie a hopeful look.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: You don't think...?
text: Jonnie digs through Terl's desk, coming up with a FORM.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
text: The monster in charge is named Terl.
dialog: | (beat)
dialog: His employee number is on this
dialog: requisition form...
text: He returns Carlo's look with a shrug.
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: It's worth a shot.
scene_heading: EXT. KEYPAD -- BANK VAULT -- MOMENTS LATER
dialog: Jonnie punches Terl'
dialog: s .
text: An entry light blinks rea ea eye number_into
text: S red and the door remains
speaker_heading: cuers MICKEY
dialog: uess he was more clever than that.
text: Jonnie nods, but then--
text: the vault's keypad.
dialog: locked.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: But the question is, how clever? Let's .
dialog: try putting the numbers in reverse order
text: He inputs Terl's employee Id-Number in reverse order. A beat, the
text: the entry light blinks green and the vault swings open.
text: Our guys enter. Jonnie's attention is drawn to the RECORDING
text: MACHINE, while Carlo, Heywood and the twins check-out the Blast-
text: Guns and spare Breath-Gas Tanks.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- LATER THAT DAY
text: Terl and Ker march past Heywood, Carlo and the twins, who are all
text: busy painting the walls, and head straight into...
scene_heading: INT. SUPPLY CLOSET -- CONTINUOUS
text: This time, Terl dangles two dead rats in front Jonnie.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Do...You...Want...Lunch?...
text: But Jonnie keeps up his blank-face routine. And is rewarded
text: for it by being picked-up by the head and launched out into--
scene_heading: INT. .SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS:
text: Jonnie skids across the floor, slamming into a wall. Terl
text: impatiently marches over to him, pulling his Blast-Gun.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: It's obviously asking too much of these
dialog: man-animal things to grasp a language
dialog: as sophisticated as Psychlo.
text: But Ker isn't willing to give-up hope of the gold and tries to
dialog: sound convincing as--
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: What if this one is particularly stupid?
dialog: Why don't we try to train another one--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: ~--We don't have time!
text: He storms over and grabs a series of surveillance photos from his
text: desk. Jonnie discreetly signals across the room to...
text: Carlo, who holds his breath, praying he doesn't get caught as...
text: He slowly reaches between Terl's legs and pushes the GREEN BUTTON,
dialog: recording as...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I can't keep hiding the recon-photos
dialog: from Home Office, forever. Plus, at the
dialog: rate the glacier is melting, the gold's
text: about to fall into the ravine.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: ---S0, we'll get .it then.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: We'd have to use explosives. Home
dialog: Office would detect them and send down a
dialog: survey team, which means we wouldn't be
dialog: able to keep the gold for ourselves.
text: Be takes one last forlorn look at the photos, then lashes out in
text: anger, delivering a vicious kick to Jonnie.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: And this damn thing's been on the machine
dialog: for two full days now, and still can't
dialog: even speak one word! It's hopeless.
dialog: (mind made up)
dialog: We terminate the operation and cover our
dialog: tracks.
text: He points his blast-gun down at Jonnie and--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: What word would you like me to speak?
text: Terl stares at Jonnie in amazement. The man-animal just spoke
dialog: Psychlo. But to make sure he's not imagining this...
speaker_heading: TERL .
dialog: ---What did you just say?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: You heard me. I asked you what word...
scene_heading: CARLO, BEYWOOD AND THE TWINS P.O.V
text: The rest of the guys can't understand what Jonnie's saying, but
text: they're shocked to realize...
text: He's speaking to the monsters in their machine-like language, as:
speaker_heading: TERL
text: In an unprecedented public display of joy, hops up and down,
text: pumping his arms in victory.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: It speaks! It actually speaks!
dialog: (as if Jonnie
dialog: was a toy)
dialog: Goon. Say something else.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Okay. How's this? You're going to stay
dialog: here as our prisoner...
dialog: (instructs Ker)
dialog: While you go and bring back a truck.
text: Terl, more amused than anything, clarifies...
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Just because I taught you how to speak
dialog: Psychlo, you're still the inferior
dialog: race... Which means I give you orders.
dialog: Xou don't give me orders. Understand?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I understand that if you don't do
dialog: exactly what we tell you to do, we'll
dialog: have no choice but to kill you both.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Oh, really? And how exactly do you plan
dialog: to do that--
text: Jonnie gives the signal. With a sudden flurry of movement--
text: Carlo, Heywood, and the twins pull BLAST-GUNS from behind their
text: paint buckets. Jonnie keeps his attention on Terl.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: The next time you chose an access code,
dialog: you might want to be a bit more clever
dialog: than just using your ID number in
dialog: reverse.
text: _ But Terl‘s only reaction is to chuckle.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: You sure they even know how to use those
dialog: things--
text: A COLLECTIVE CLICK as our guys slam the levers down on their gun
text: to kill position. Ker immediately throws his arm up in purrende
text: And Terl is no longer chuckling. He looks around at the guns
text: pointed at him and buries his head in his paws, and begins to...
text: Howl with laughter. Convulsing so hard, tears run down his face
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: Can you imagine the official report?
dialog: (gasps for air)
dialog: Head of Security killed by man-animals!
text: Still laughing hysterically, he rears back to smack Jonnie. But
text: Mickey jumps forward and FIRES his gun at Terl--
text: Only there's nothing but a CLICK. The weapon doesn't fire.
text: Sammy leaps forward and fires his Blaster. CLICK. His gun
text: doesn't work either. Carlo and Heywood get the same result.
speaker_heading: HEYWOOD
dialog: +.-Uh-oh.
text: Terl, still laughing, follows through on his swing, sending Jonn.
text: flying across the room. Then explains to him with a smirk.
speaker_heading: ESTES SE SS SE I SS
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: If you rat-brains knew anything about
dialog: firearm safety, you'd know one doesn't
text: store loaded weapons.
text: Then he turns to take care of the others. Goes to smack Samny--
text: But Mickey protectively grabs a LETTER-OPENER from a desk, and wi
text: blinding speed, plunges the blade straight for Terl's chest--
text: ' Only as fast as Mickey is, Terl is faster, and he deflects the
text: \ blow with his arm, sustaining a small cut in the process.
text: Terl then promptly relieves Mickey of the letter-opener and seize
text: the trembling twin by the throat, holding him firmly in place as-
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Next time you want to stab someone, let
dialog: me show you how to do it right--
text: He raises the sharp blade high above Mickey's chest--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: (steel in his voice)
dialog: You hurt him, I won't mine your gold!
text: fTerl pauses to consider this. Then turns and convincingly bluffs
speaker_heading: TERL .
dialog: } Then I'll vaporize you and get someone
dialog: . else to mine the gold-- cy
dialog: ,
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: }
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: --You don't have time. You can't keep
text: hiding the recon-photos from Home Office,
dialog: ' forever. And the glacier is melting.
text: In that one moment, Terl's whole world is turned upside down.
text: Jonnie gives Terl a dangerous smile.
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
text: Man getting leverage over a Psychlo.
dialog: That would be the day, wouldn't it?
text: Rage burns openly in Terl's eyes, but he lowers the weapon and
text: calmly turns to Ker.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: «+I think it's time we showed our
dialog: little friend here a thing or two.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER LIBRARY -- THAT DAY
text: A Mark II Ground Car is parked in front of the library. Locked
text: in a cage in the rear of the vehicle--
speaker_heading: Sv
dialog: ‘
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Carlo, Heywood and the twins watch with concern as Terl drags
text: Jonnie by a leash across the street and up marble steps.
dialog: ©
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DENVER LIBRARY -- CONCOURSE -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Terl’s usual deep throated voice sounds even more ominous as it
text: echoes eerily in the library's expansive entryway.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: As long as you cling to the feeble hope
dialog: that you can get the better of me,
dialog: you'll be distracted from the important
dialog: work which needs to be done. Which is
dialog: why I share the following with you...
text: He gives the leash a good hard jerk, yanking Jonnie down a--
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl moves at his normal gait, forcing Jonnie to run to keep up.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: When we attacked your planet, all your
dialog: soldiers, using your best military
dialog: technology, were only able to put-up a
dialog: measly nine minute fight before we
dialog: exterminated them, along with all but
dialog: a few of the six billion humans
dialog: polluting this planet.
text: He snaps the leash, whiplashing Jonnie into--
scene_heading: INT. CENTRAL RESEARCH ROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: The shelves lining this cavernous tomb of a room are stacked full
text: of books. An endless variety of subjects and titles.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: Everything you humans knew is in here.
text: He makes a big production of letting go of the leash, giving
text: Jonnie full run of the place.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: And you can look at anything you want.
dialog: Because there's nothing that can help
dialog: you.
text: He watches amused as Jonnie takes him up on his offer, pulling
text: books from shelves. Terl can't resist calling after him--
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: But I'm sure you'll find a lot of recipes
dialog: on how to prepare raw rat.
text: Terl cracks-up, finding this particularly entertaining.
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAI ~~ REAR OF GROUND CAR -- LATER THAT DAY
text: Mickey pensively shakes his head, fearing the worst.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: Think he's still alive?
speaker_heading: HEYWOOD
dialog: If he is, he probably wishes he wasn't...
dialog: 
text: A darkness hangs over the cage as everyone continues to stare up
dialog: at the library, where--
scene_heading: ' INT. DENVER LIBRARY -- CENTRAL RESEARCH ROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl is filing his talons. Across from him, Jonnie finishes
text: looking through a large stack of books.
dialog: 1 Satisfied?
speaker_heading: ’ JONNIE
dialog: Yes.
text: As Jonnie heads for the door, Terl steals a peek at the book he
dialog: was just looking at. It's the Declaration of Independence.
text: But Terl can't read English. Unconcerned, he just shrugs,
text: swatting the book across the room.
scene_heading: EXT. DOMED CITY -- EDGE OF A FIELD -- A LITTLE LATER
text: or ws Ona rise overlooking the domed city, a herd of grazing cows cas
text: —y curious stares across the field as the Mark II Ground Car pulls
dialog: )
text: Terl emerges from the vehicle, followed by Jonnie.
speaker_heading: - TERL
dialog: ' / You will soon be relocated to a new
dialog: mining site. And if any of you get any
dialog: bright ideas about escaping, keep in
dialog: mind that while you rat-brains may not
dialog: know anything about firearms, I
dialog: certainly do. I just happened to be
dialog: top marksman of my graduating class.
dialog: And I can kill any of you at well over
dialog: a thousand paces...
dialog: (to Jonnie)
dialog: Tell them what I just said.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: (relays to
dialog: the others)
dialog: If we try to escape, he'll shoot us.
text: Terl waits for Jonnie to continue. And when he doesn't...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: That's it?
text: Jonnie nods. Terl is surprised, but shrugs and continues with t
text: subject at hand. He pulls his Blast-Gun, explaining--
speaker_heading: EL A an nnn NNN
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: Allow me to demonstrate.
text: Be turns and FIRES into the middle of the--
speaker_heading: GRAZING COWS
text: Killing several of the animals. The others take off in a panicked
text: stampede of churning hooves. Terl continues to calmly fire-- .
text: Blasting the legs clean off the fast-moving animals. Sending
text: them collapsing to the ground, BELLOWING in anguished torture.
text: Terl shows off with some trick shots. From behind the back.
text: With his eyes closed. All with the same horrific result...
text: The field littered with a bloody sea of suffering animals thrashi
text: around helplessly. Sensing something behind them, Jonnie turns--
scene_heading: EXT. ACROSS THE FIELD -- CONTINUOUS
text: A GRIZZLY BEAR emerges from an abandoned building. Nostrils
text: flaring at the smell of blood. And with a growl, he charges at--
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF THE FIELD -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl, who is too busy with his shooting demonstration, to notice.
text: But he does note the look in Jonnie's eyes as Jonnie starts back:
text: away. And misreading it as revulsion to the carnage on the fiel«
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Don't you know your own history? Man-
dialog: kind was the only animal on this planet
dialog: that hunted other animals for sport...
dialog: (has to admit)
dialog: Which means there might be some hope for
dialog: your species after all--
text: The GRIZZLY slams into Terl from behind--
text: The fierce impact jars the gun from Terl's grasp as he's violent]
text: MAULED down. And with the grizzly on his back, pinning him down,
text: Terl is unable to get his own talons up at--
speaker_heading: THE BEAR
text: Who is starting to do damage. Powerful claws savagely slashing
text: into Terl's flesh as Terl remains unable to defend himself.
text: Jonnie scoops up the gun, switches it to stun position and FIRES.
text: Knocking the grizzly flat by the shot. Carlo can't believe it.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: What are you doing? Let the bear rip
dialog: him to shreds--
text: Jonnie raises the weapon on Terl, who bloodied and bruised, sits
text: himself up and gives Jonnie a friendly smile.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Look, we can work out a deal. There's
dialog: more than enough gold to go around--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: --You're in no position to be making a
dialog: deal. .
text: He switches the gun into kill position.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: (now understanding)
dialog: You're right. It's better we kill him.
text: And for the first time, there is_terror in Terl's eyes. He brac |
text: himself, waiting for the shot. He doesn't have to wait long...
speaker_heading: KABLAM!
text: Terl's eyes open wide in shock.
text: He hasn't been hit. The shot was directed at one of the sufferil
text: cows behind him, as Jonnie humanely ends the animal's misery.
text: BLAM! BLAM! BLAM!
text: Jonnie does the same with the rest of the herd. Terl has to smi
dialog: at the irony of it...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: You've learned more Psychlo than I ever
dialog: thought possible.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: To toy with me like this before you kill
dialog: me. I'm impressed...
dialog: (genuinely)
dialog: You honor me.
text: He closes his eyes, bows his head, ready for his execution.
text: Jonnie stands there, the gun now sighted on Terl. His finger
text: aching to pull the trigger. But he doesn't...
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: What are you waiting for?! Kill him!
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: If I kill him, then what do we do?
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: Get the hell out of here!
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: To what kind of life?! Always looking
text: over out shoulders, waiting for another
dialog: monster to come hunt us down...
dialog: I
dialog: 
text: TERL can't understand what the man-animals are babbling about.
text: a But his eyes remain focused on the gun in Jonnie's hand, waiting |
dialog: a for a chance to grab it--
text: But Jonnie keeps the weapon leveled on Terl's chest, as he
dialog: continues to address the others...
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: ' «..And what about the others back at the
dialog: mining camp?
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: There's nothing we can do about them.
dialog: (resigned)
dialog: Only the Gods can free them.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
text: Those lights we see in the sky at night.
dialog: ) They are not Gods watching down on us.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: «What are you talking about?
dialog: ,
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I learned our history, today. Our
dialog: ancestors built flying machines that
dialog: went up into the heavens. I saw the
dialog: ’ pictures with my own. eyes...
dialog: se . . (re: the stars) © + ¢ .
dialog: ( A Those are planets. Like this'one. They
dialog: are not gods waiting to come and save us.
text: He waits a long beat for everyone to digest this, then...
speaker_heading: } JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: And the great villages weren't built by_
dialog: . gods. They were built by people, just
dialog: like us. Men and women who cherished
dialog: one thing above all else. Freedom.
dialog: (impassioned)
dialog: It meant so much to them, they'd fight
dialog: to the death for it if they had to. In
dialog: fact, many of them did.
text: Inspired, Mickey immediately steps forward.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: You're right...
text: His voice is a bit impulsive, but full of conviction.
speaker_heading: MICKEY (cont'd)
dialog: We can't run away from the monsters. We
dialog: have to fight them!
text: } His brother, Sammy, immediately joins him. Heywood also steps
text: “ forward in solidarity. But Carlo isn't so sure...
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: How the hell are we going to fight them?
speaker_heading: i SS I
speaker_heading: CO) ~ JONNIE
dialog: . I'm not sure, yet. But I do know we're
dialog: A not ready. We need to learn more about
dialog: them. Like their weaknesses.
dialog: (concedes)
dialog: And we're going to have to learn other
dialog: : stuff as well. I mean, we didn't even
dialog: ! know the guns weren't going to work.
text: A long beat, then with the look of a man who knows he's going to
text: regret this, Carlo steps forward, joining the others with a sigh
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: +--Which is why we have to go back.
text: Terl watches as the damnedest thing happens...
text: Jonnie turns to him, returning the gun to him, explaining it wit
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: , Surely someone as smart as you has some
dialog: ' secret plan to stop me from shooting you.
dialog: . If I tried, you would have killed me.
text: In the blink of an eye, Terl shifts his demeanor back to his old
dialog: , caustic self--
speaker_heading: ) TERL
dialog: = if . Damn right I would have, rat-brain!
dialog: ! . (chortles)
dialog: That's the first intelligent thing
dialog: 1 you've said, yet.
text: He points Jonnie to the far edge of the field.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: Rest-break's over. There's something
dialog: else you need to see--
scene_heading: EXT. FAR EDGE OF THE FIELD -- OVERLOOKING DENVER -- A LITTLE LATE
text: Terl proudly points down to the domed city below.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: That entire city doesn't even equal one
dialog: block in one of the hundreds of
dialog: thousands of cities on the great Home
dialog: Planet of Paychlo. And from there, we
dialog: control countless outposts all over the
dialog: universe. Each one much larger than
dialog: this. One of those outposts used to be
dialog: : the Chinko's planet.
text: Terl stares Jonnie straight in the eye, making sure he understand:
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: The Chinkos were the ones who designed
dialog: the Learning Machine. They were far ~
dialog: . more advanced than you rat-brains. And
dialog: _ when they tried to revolt, we sent down
dialog: ( ? our gas drones, and within minutes every
dialog: ~ last one of them was exterminated.
dialog: (sure of this)
dialog: So get it through your little excuse for
dialog: a brain. There is no way a species as
dialog: primitive as yours could ever defeat us.
text: He lets Jonnie chew on that for a beat, then concedes...
speaker_heading: TERL (cont.'d)
dialog: But you were right about one small thing.
dialog: If you refuse to mine the gold, I may not
dialog: have enough time to train anyone else.
dialog: Which is why it is imperative that you
dialog: are properly motivated--
text: A SECOND Mark II Ground Car pulls up. Ker emerges from the
text: vehicle and opens the trunk, pulling out--
dialog: ' CERISSY.
text: Relief floods her eyes when she sees Jonnie. At least he's alive
text: But as hard as it is to do, Jonnie gives Chrissy an emotionless
text: vacant look. like she means nothing to him
text: { ) sO And Chrissy senses enough to duplicate this look. Terl watches
dialog: ! Jonnie very closely. .
speaker_heading: . TERL
dialog: ' ++-You don't know her?
text: He pulls out Chrissy's charcoal drawing of Jonnie.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: This was on her when she was collected.
text: Jonnie tries to hide the fear in his eyes at what Terl might do.
text: He doesn't have to wait long to find out...
text: Terl holds up a CBOKE-COLLAR with a red square on it.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: This collar has enough explosive to
text: easily remove her head from her body.
text: He secures the collar to Chrissy's neck, then pulls a REMOTE
speaker_heading: CONTROL.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: And this remote can activate the
text: explosive from anywhere on the planet.
dialog: So if you ever disobey me, let me show
dialog: you exactly what will happen.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Ker secures a second red-squared collar around Heywood's neck.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Listen, you win! I'll mine your gold.
dialog: And I know you don't owe me any favors...
dialog: But please, don't kill him!
text: Terl stares at Jonnie. A long beat. Then he finally relents...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Fine... As a gesture to our new working
dialog: relationship, I will grant you this one
dialog: request. I won't kill him. But you can
dialog: never ask for anything else again.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I won't. And thank-you--
text: Terl nonchalantly tosses the remote to Ker.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: As I said, I won't kill him...
text: Ker gives Jonnie an evil grin, then slowly pushes the button--
speaker_heading: KABLAM!!
text: Heywood is no longer among the living. Terl and Ker laugh their
text: asses off at the shocked betrayal on Jonnie's face.
dialog: «..Stupid humans.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER ZOO -- THAT NIGET
text: Returning the humans to their cage for the night, Terl stares at
text: Mickey and Sammy. Impossible to tell the twins apart...
text: The two young brothers watch with growing concern as Terl motions
text: to them, while asking Jonnie something in Psychlo.
speaker_heading: SAMMY
dialog: «--What did he say?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: He wants to know which one of you tried
text: to stab him.
text: A look of knowing terror in Mickey's eyes.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: Why? What's he going to do?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Unfortunately, there's no way of
dialog: telling.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Or
dialog: |
dialog: 
text: Mickey nods, accepting his fate, whatever it may be. He turns--
text: But Sammy has already stepped forward, sacrificing himself to
text: Terl. Mickey, stunned, tries to stop him--
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: » What are you doing?! I'm the one who--
speaker_heading: SAMMY
dialog: --You were just trying to protect me.
text: Terl grabs Sammy and Jonnie and marches away.
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Terl straps Sammy to the teleportation platform, then calmly
text: drags Jonnie down to--
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -~- MOMENTS LATER
text: ferl punches commands into a console. Over the hum of the
text: generators coming to life, Terl explains to Jonnie...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Now that you and I have our little
dialog: agreement straight, I want you to watch
dialog: this, so you can tell the others:
dialog: what'll happen to them if any of you
dialog: ever disobey me.
text: He points Jonnie's attention to a monitor, beaming back images o
text: teleportation platforms on the HOME PLANET OF PSYCHLO as...
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: Teleportation in five... In four... In
dialog: three... In two... In one...
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: With a THUNDER-CLAP of sound and a BLINDING FLASH of light...
text: Sammy disappears from the platform--
scene_heading: EXT. PLANET PSYCHLO -- TELEPORTATION CENTER -- CONTINUOUS
text: And appears on one of the countless teleportation platforms
text: stretched out under a radiant purple sky.
text: Sammy can't breath the air. Starting to suffocate.
text: Panicking, the youngster desperately undoes the strap tethering
text: him to the platform and tries to run to safety, but--
text: The mich larger planet's immense gravitational pul] crushes him
text: to his knees. His eyes bulging, he stares out at a--
scene_heading: NIGHTMARISH SKYLINE
dialog: 
text: Endless rows of factories belching fire crammed between office
text: buildings thousands of times taller than the World Trade Center.
speaker_heading: SAMMY
text: Lets out a gasping plea for help as his spine starts to crack
text: under the atmospheric weight. And the last thing he sees are...
speaker_heading: PSYCHLO WORKERS
text: Crowding around him in curious amusement. As if observing an
text: insect cooking in a microwave. Until...
text: ‘The young twin literally IMPLODES. His body caving in on itself
text: mercifully ending the suffering.
scene_heading: INT. EARTH -- TELEPORTATION CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie rips his eyes away from the abominable scene playing on
dialog: the monitor. In contrast...
text: Terl views it to its bitter end, clucking the whole time with
dialog: enjoyment.
scene_heading: INT. EMPLOYEE RECREATION HALL -- CONTINUOUS
text: A bunch of Psychlos crowd around the bar, consuming kérbango, '
text: including the RESEARCH CLERK that Terl checked out the discs fro
text: Ker joins the group, shaking his head despondently.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: I just got the worst news. My cousin
dialog: Numph got vaporized... -
text: Everyone is surprised by Ker's un-Psychlo like grief.
speaker_heading: KER (cont'd)
dialog: ...The bastard owed me over a thousand
dialog: credits! Now I'll never get it.
text: The group nods, now understanding.
speaker_heading: KER (cont'd)
dialog: But it's the idiot's own fault. He knew
text: about a planned mutiny attempt, but
dialog: failed to report it.
text: The Psychlos give a collective ‘He got what he had coming,’
text: shrug, then return to their kerbango as... .
text: The research clerk leans over to Ker, nonchalantly inquiring:
speaker_heading: RESEARCH CLERK
dialog: Just wondering. How exactly did they
dialog: find out he knew about the mutiny?
dialog: Neem
speaker_heading: KER ,
dialog: He was on a remote rini star planet, not
dialog: unlike this one, where just like here,
dialog: they secretly record and archive all
dialog: conversations.
dialog: (J This is news to the research clerk.
speaker_heading: KER (cont'd)
dialog: So, if there was ever a mutiny, we'd
dialog: obviously review every recording...
dialog: (dark laugh)
dialog: And I'd sure hate to be the poor bastard
dialog: who knew about it, but didn't report it.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER ZOO -- CAGE -- THAT NIGHT
dialog: ,
dialog: '
dialog: ,
text: ' A guard tosses Jonnie back into the cage. Mickey tentatively
text: | approaches him, afraid to ask the question, but has to...
dialog: ,
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: , What happened to my brother?
text: ! Jonnie stares at him. A long, difficult beat. Then finally--
speaker_heading: . JONNIE
dialog: , The monster sent him up to their home
dialog: . planet...
text: Before he can continue, Mickey exhales, relieved.
dialog: +.-Thank god, because I thought for sure
dialog: he was going to kill him.
text: Jonnie continues to stare at Mickey, his heart breaking. But for
text: the life of him, he just can't bring himself to tell him the rest
scene_heading: INT. DENVER HOTEL -~ CONTINUOUS
text: Terl hurries down a hallway. A pair of GUARDS snap a salute and
text: immediately open a door, allowing him into--
scene_heading: INT. PLANETSHIP'S LIVING QUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: Ker and the research clerk are in the room with the Planetship.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: You wanted to see me--
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: --It's my assistant! He's the bastard
text: planning the mtiny.
text: Terl does an impressive job of acting shocked by the news.
scene_heading: INT. ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP'S LIVING QUARTERS -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The Assistant Planetship doesn't have to act. He is shocked.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP
dialog: Why the hell would I want to do that?!
text: Terl slips a disc into a machine, playing a recording of...
scene_heading: INT. RESEARCH CENTER -- ON THE MONITOR
text: Terl, convincingly disguised as the Assistant Planetship, leaning
text: in with a conspiratorial whisper to the Research Clerk.
speaker_heading: TERL (AS ASSIST. PLANETSHIP)
dialog: «.+-Can you keep a secret?
speaker_heading: RESEARCH CLERK
dialog: I'd like to think so.
scene_heading: INT. ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP'S LIVING QUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: The Assistant Planetship shakes his head, pointing to the person
text: ) who looks just like him on the monitor.
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP
dialog: , That's not me! I never said that!
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: Oh shut up! We know it's you. You were
dialog: stupid enough to sign your own name--
text: He holds up the sign-out sheet, bearing Terl's perfect forgery.of.
text: the Assistant Planetship's signature. ON THE MONITOR... ~
scene_heading: INT. RESEARCH CENTER -- ON THE MONITOR
text: Terl, in the guise of the Assistant Planetship, looks around,
text: making sure no one's listening, before ‘confiding’...
speaker_heading: TERL (AS ASSIST. PLANETSHIP)
dialog: +..Why the hell should we put up with
dialog: reduced pay and no vacations, all
dialog: because our incompetent Planetship has
dialog: no idea how to properly run this place?
speaker_heading: RESEARCH CLERK
dialog: I don't think the fat-ass could run any
dialog: planet--
scene_heading: INT. ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP'S LIVING QUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: The Research Clerk immediately turns to the Planetship, insisting..
speaker_heading: RESEARCH CLERK
dialog: I only said that, sir, to trick him into
dialog: telling me the plan, s0 I could
dialog: immediately come and warn you of it!
text: The Planetship gives a gruff nod and continues to watch as...
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Gh
scene_heading: INT. RESEARCH CENTER -- ON THE MONITOR
text: ON THE RECORDING, Terl continues...
speaker_heading: TERL (AS ASSIST. PLANETSHIP)
dialog: All it would take is one strategically
dialog: placed door-bomb and I'd be in charge.
scene_heading: INT. EXECUTIVE OFFICE SUITE -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The Assistant Planetship stands alone in front of a door to the
text: Planetship's office. He nervously calls down the hall--
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP
dialog: But what if there js a door-bomb?
text: Terl, Ker and the Planetship watch from behind a protective blast
text: shield positioned a safe distance down the corridor.
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: I thought you said you didn't put one
dialog: there! :
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP
dialog: I didn't. But maybe someone else did!
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: If you refuse to cooperate with this
dialog: investigation, I'm afraid regulaticns:
dialog: would require me to vaporize you for the
dialog: charge of high treason...
text: The Assistant Planetship sighs. Then closes his eyes and braces
text: his body, as if that could samehow protect him from an explosion.
text: And he slowly cracks open the door. Nothing happens.
scene_heading: ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP
dialog: See, I told you I didn't put a--
text: A flash of light and a deafening blast as a CATACLYSMIC EXPLOSION
text: blows the Assistant Planetship and much of the hall into oblivion.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET -- OUTSIDE EXECUTIVE OFFICES -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Psychlo workers hose down the last of the fire from the explosion
text: Ker follows behind as the Planetship strolls by with Terl, who is
text: adamantly shaking his head, pretending to be distraught.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: But you can't take Ker! He's the best
dialog: assistant I ever had--
dialog: y . " ¢ PLANETSEIP
dialog: ~7You're out of your skull if you think
dialog: I'm going to wait for Home Office to
dialog: process a requisition for a new E-3
dialog: Level Executive Assistant!
dialog: a
dialog: 
text: Terl and Ker share a secret look of victory.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER Z00 -- CAGE -- THE NEXT MORNING
text: Jonnie sits alone in the corner, For the first time, he looks
text: defeated. He doesn't even bother to look up as...
text: Terl cheerfully strides up, snaps a leash around Jonnie's neck
text: and yanks him to his feet.
speaker_heading: . TERL
dialog: You've got a busy day ahead of you,
dialog: rat-brain. You'll start with discs on
dialog: mining techniques, core sampling, and
dialog: machine operations.
text: He dangles a handful of dead rats in front of Jonnie's face.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd) ,
text: Then after lunch, it's on to drilling :
text: and flying simulators.
text: Jonnie nods numbly. There's no more fight left in him.
scene_heading: INT. ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP'S OFFICE -- LATER THAT DAY '
text: Ker, in his new office, struggles through a crossword puzzle. Hi |
text: quickly hides it as the Planetship sticks his head into the room
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: Quitting time. Want to get some food?
dialog: Thanks, sir, but I'm going to stay and
dialog: get some more work done.
text: The Planetship nads, both surprised and impressed...
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY -- CONTINUOUS
text: And heading down the hall, the Planetship mutters to himself.
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: +--Should have had my assistant
dialog: vaporized a long time ago.
text: He heads into an elevator and the doors close with a bing--
scene_heading: INT. ASSISTANT PLANETSHIP'S OFFICE ~-- DAY
text: As soon as Ker hears the noise, he immediately steals into the
dialog: adjoining office--
scene_heading: INT. PLANETSHIP'S OFFICE —- CONTINUOUS
text: And goes to work, snooping through the Planetship's personal files
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie half-heartedly pushes buttons on control panel to a
text: HOLOGRAPHIC FIGHT SIMULATOR. But all he manages to do is...
text: Crash into a simulated mountain.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: (growls)
dialog: Crash one more time, and your little
text: friend is no longer among the living.
text: He holds up the REMOTE to Chrissy's explosive collar, then
text: restarts the simulator.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER 200 CAGE -- THAT NIGET
text: Jonnie is back to sitting alone with a despondent look.
text: Carlo and Mickey slowly approach. Nothing is said for the
text: longest time. And finally, Jonnie looks up at Carlo.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: You were right. I should have shot the
dialog: monster when I had the chance...
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: That way, Sammy and Heywood would still
dialog: be alive. :
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: You didn't kill them.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: No, the monster did. And I didn't kill
dialog: the monster when I could have.
dialog: (tortured whisper)
dialog: Which means it's my fault.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: You didn't kill the monster for a reason.
text: Jonnie gives him a haunted look--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: That's the point. If we try and fight
dialog: them, more of us will end up getting
dialog: killed. Maybe even everyone...
dialog: (barely audible)
dialog: All because of me.
text: Carlo shakes his head, trying to hold back the anger.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: This isn't just about you. Remember what
dialog: Heywood said. It's about all of us...
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: And we need you. You speak the monsters’
dialog: language. You know things about them.
text: Jonnie looks around at the others in the cage, who are now staring
text: at him. And he sees something on their faces he's never seen
text: before. Hope. The longest of beats, then...
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Everyone has to know. If we do this,
dialog: there's a good chance that not one of us
text: will be alive by the time it's over.
text: But not one person is deterred. Carlo gives Jonnie's words back
dialog: to him--
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: Look around. This ain't exactly living.
dialog: And even if we could escape and go back
dialog: to our villages, we'd always be looking
text: over our shoulder, waiting to be hunted
text: down by the monsters.
dialog: (pointed)
dialog: And that ain't exactly living either.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: (fierce resolve)
dialog: So if you can help us figure out a way
dialog: to fight the monsters, no matter what it
dialog: is, count us in.
speaker_heading: A VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Count us in too-- .
scene_heading: EXT. NEXT CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: This voice belongs to one of the human slaves pressed against the
text: bars of the next cage over, listening to what's going on in
text: Jonnie's cage. And from the next cage over from that...
speaker_heading: ANOTHER VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: What's going on?
text: The human slave turns and calls to the second voice--
speaker_heading: HUMAN SLAVE
dialog: Someone in that cage knows how to speak
dialog: the monsters' language. And he's going
dialog: to help us fight them--
text: Someone from the next cage asks what's going on...
scene_heading: EXT. NEXT CAGE OVER -- CONTINUOUS
text: And the news is met with the same ardent reaction. We PULL BACK t
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER ZOO -- CONTINUOUS
text: The message passing from cage to cage, until the whole zoo erupts °
text: &@ DEAFENING ROAR. The battle-cry resounding defiantly in the nigh
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- THE NEXT DAY
text: It's a whole different Jonnie. Attentive and focused as his
text: fingers fly over the similator's control panel.
text: Terl watches, impressed. Then holds up the remote to Chrissy's
text: explosive collar, gloating...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Never underestimate what a little
dialog: leverage can do, rat-brain.
text: Jonnie nods, letting Terl believe what he wants to.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER ZOO -- CAGE -- THAT NIGHT
text: Everyone in Jonnie's cage crowds around him as he draws letters
text: in the dirt, teaching the others to read and write. Jonnie
text: passes the stick to Carlo, who carefully starts to write letters |
dialog: of his own.
scene_heading: INT. PLANETSHIP'S OFFICE -- THE NEXT MORNING '
text: The Planetship strolls into his office, but freezes in his track
dialog: What the hell are Terl and Ker ‘doing in his inner-sanctum...
text: But then he sees the files all neatly laid out on his desk. He
text: looks at them, the life draining from his eyes.
speaker_heading: TERL .
dialog: Isn't it interesting you've been keeping
dialog: two sets of books... And while you've told
dialog: the workers that this planet's operating at
dialog: a loss, it's actually quite profitable.
text: The Planetship shakes his head, feebly trying to explain...
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: I only claimed it's running at a loss to
dialog: try and motivate everyone to work harder.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Of course you did...
dialog: (knowing smile)
dialog: And it had nothing to do with how it
dialog: allows you to cut everyone's pay, so you
dialog: keep all the extra credits for yourself.
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: Oh, that? I can explain that--
text: But Terl drops a heavy tome onto the desk with a resounding clang
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: --I'm afraid company regulations
dialog: requires me to vaporize you.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: But I can see how someone in your
dialog: position, faced with growing old and no
dialog: future, might be forced to find creative
dialog: ways to solve your financial problems.
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
dialog: «+-You can?
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: And it's not in any of our interests for
dialog: you to stop being the Planetship... But
dialog: it may be prudent for you to start
dialog: sharing some of your authority.
text: Ker hands the Planetship a huge sheaf of requisition and order
text: forms, along with a pen to sign then.
speaker_heading: PLANETSHIP
text: But these forms are blank. And undated.
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: If I sign them, you could put anything
dialog: you want on them. You'd be running the
dialog: entire planet! I'd be nothing but a
dialog: puppet--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: --If you don’t want to do it this way, we
dialog: could always do it by the book.
text: He pats his Blast-Gun, underscoring the threat.
scene_heading: INT. MINING SUPPLY WAREHOUSE ~-- THAT DAY
text: A SUPPLY CLERK stares incredulously at a requisition form.
speaker_heading: SUPPLY CLERK
dialog: What the hell does the Planetship need
dialog: with all this mining equipment?!
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: That's not even the crazy part.
dialog: (holds up an
dialog: order form)
dialog: He's ordered me to take a group of man-
text: animals with the equipment out to a
dialog: remote area to see if they can be
dialog: trained to mine. Can you imagine that?!
speaker_heading: SUPPLY CLERK
dialog: Man-animals being able to mine?! The
text: old Psychlo's gone completely insane.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Tell me about it. But what can I do...
dialog: (helpless shrug)
dialog: An order's an order.
dialog: 
dialog: me
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CARGO CAGE -- LATER THAT DAY
text: A HOWLING WIND cuts through a large steel cage containing Carlo,
text: Mickey, and some twenty other men, along with an assortment of
text: mining machines and equipment. The cage is suspended from the
dialog: underbelly of a--
scene_heading: PSYCHLO CARGO-TYPE AIRCRAFT
text: Which hurtles over the majestic Rocky Mountains. Following
text: behind, Ker is at the helm of a smaller fighter-plane.
scene_heading: INT. AIRCRAFT -- COCKPIT -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl keeps a careful eye on Jonnie, who is piloting the aircraft.
text: An ALARM suddenly blares through-out the cockpit--
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (OVER SPEAKERS
dialog: Warning! External sensors indicate :
dialog: dangerous radiation levels ahead--
text: Blue sparks are starting to pop throughout the cockpit.
text: For the first time, there is genuine fear in Terl's eyes. He
text: immediately points to a meadow visible below--
speaker_heading: TERL .
dialog: What are you waiting for?! Land the .
dialog: damn craft. This is as far as I can go.
text: Jonnie punches buttons on the control panel, landing the aircraft.
scene_heading: EXT. MEADOW -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Terl motions Jonnie to the cargo c a
text: the meadow neasbes go cage as Ker lands the fighter in
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Meet me back here in fourteen days with
dialog: at least half of that cage full of gold,
dialog: or I'll ‘terminate’ your entire
dialog: operation.
text: As the threat hangs there, Terl checks his time-piece.
scene_heading: EXT. MEADOW -- A LITTLE LATER
text: The men have been assembled out on the meadow, when there's an
text: ethereal, almost otherworldly WAILING from above as--
scene_heading: A PSYCHLO RECON DRONE
text: Hurtles overhead. One of the drone's high-tech CAMERA-LENS
text: rotates to stare down at our guys.
dialog: 
dialog: |
text: A TRANSMISSION RECEIVER spits out a SURVEILLANCE PHOTO taken fre
text: the recon drone, depicting Jonnie and the others staring up intc
dialog: the sky. Ker hands it to--
scene_heading: INT. FIGHTER PLANE -- MOMENTS LATER
scene_heading: EXT. MEADOW -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl, who gives the surveillance photo to Jonnie. I
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Tell them that even though I won't be
dialog: at the mining site, I'll be able to
dialog: keep an eye on you...
dialog: (admonishes)
dialog: And anyone who isn't working hard will
dialog: be ‘replaced', if you know what I mean.
text: He pats his blast-gun, making sure Jonnie understands, then turn
text: and climbs into the fighter as Ker pilots it up and away.
text: Jonnie and the men start back to the cargo aircraft, but Jonnie
text: instantly whirls. Eyes scanning the underbrush in the tree line
text: He grabs a PICK-AX from the mining equipment, holding it up as a
text: weapon. Following his lead, the rest of the men do likewise as.
text: The bush moves. And out from behind it steps--
text: A wild-eyed figure with the look of someone who has survived a
text: long time alone in the wilderness. Ignoring the ‘array -of weapon |
text: pointed at him, the ROGUE stares at Jonnie in complete awe.
speaker_heading: ROGUE *
dialog: How'd you do it?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: +.-Do what?
speaker_heading: ROGUE
dialog: Make that monster go away without
dialog: killing you.
text: Jonnie gives him a friendly smile.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I'm afraid it's a long story.
speaker_heading: CARLO :
dialog: And .sorry, pal, we'd love to fill you in,
dialog: but we don't have a lot of time--
text: The rogue sizes up Jonnie and the rest of the men, then nods as
text: he's reached some important decision, and returns Jonnie's smile
speaker_heading: ROGUE
dialog: The name's Mason, and I've got nothing
dialog: but time...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SHOPPING MALL -- THAT NIGET
text: The cargo aircraft lands on top of the shopping mall where Jonni:
text: and Carlo were first captured by the Psychlo wrangler.
text: Jonnie and a small group of men emerge and race inside the build ©
text: Jonnie and a group of his men move through the store, scavenging
text: WALKIE-TALKIES and RECHARGEABLE. BATTERIES, while-- . .
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MINING SITE -- LATER THAT NIGHT
dialog: i i ini i id our guys
text: Jonnie lands the cargo-aircraft at the mining site, an
text: now including MASON, begin hauling the equipment into the shelte
text: of a cave.
text: Carlo looks up from the list he's been studying with a worried
dialog: expression--
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: If we work around the clock, we'll be
dialog: lucky to mine enough gold to fill half '
dialog: that cage... There's no way we're going
dialog: to be able to do that and get all this
dialog: stuff done we need for the revolt.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I've sot worse news. There's only gonna
dialog: be about half of you digging.
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: I'm gonna be looking somewhere else for
dialog: it.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. RADIO SHACK -- THE NEXT DAY
scene_heading: INT. GUN AND AMMO SHOP -- CONTINUOUS
text: Mickey and Sammy lead_a separate team through a gun shop,
dialog: collecting weapons, and--
scene_heading: INT. HARDWOOD STORE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Carlo and a third squad scrounge up supplies, including SPOOLS 0
scene_heading: THIN WIRE.
scene_heading: INT. MINING SITE -- CAVE -- THAT DAY
text: Jonnie shows his group basic engine mechanics as he rebuilds the
text: motor on a small, gas-powered generator. Nearby...
text: Mickey and Sammy's team assemble crude, but effective-looking
text: homemade bombs from the mining equipment.
scene_heading: INT. MINING SITE -- CAVE -- A LITTLE LATER
text: With the generator, now reassembled, Jonnie fires it to life.
text: The men burst out in applause as electricity flows to a line of
text: battery rechargers.
speaker_heading: TT
scene_heading: INT. PSYCHLO AIRCRAFT -~- COCKPIT -- DAY
text: Jonnie pilots the aircraft. Carlo is in the navigator's seat.
text: Behind him, Mickey shakes his head--
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: ..-Hey, what's that?
dialog: 
text: gonnie banks the aircraft around. And now, staring at them
text: through the cockpit window is...
scene_heading: 1 THE STATUE OF LIBERTY
text: Watching over a completely empty harbor.
scene_heading: EXT. MANHATTAN -- CONTINUOUS
text: The same with the city of Manhattan. The entire island is a
text: literal ghost town. Nothing moves. Hovering overhead--
scene_heading: INT. AIRCRAFT -- CONTINUOUS
text: : Jonnie studies the map, realizing.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: We're here. Over New York.
scene_heading: a EXT. MINING SITE -- CONTINUOUS -
text: A wailing sound grows louder as the RECON DRONE passes overhead,
text: cameras spying down on the mining site, where...
scene_heading: INT. CAVE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Hidden from view in the cave, two of Jonnie's men have stayed
text: behind and now pull on a series of thin wires, which run through
dialog: a pulley system and out to...
scene_heading: EXT. MINING SITE -~ CONTINUOUS
text: Twenty DEPARTMENT STORE MANNEQUINS, all decked out in mining gear
text: and holding shovels and pick-axes. As the wires are pulled...
text: The mannequins move like marionettes, looking like they're hard
text: at work mining the gold.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl grabs the surveillance photo as soon as it spits out from
text: the transmission receiver. He gives a satisfied nod.
speaker_heading: / - TERL
dialog: - That's what a little leverage can do for
dialog: you. See them all slaving away.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: Well, with my share, I'm going to fire
dialog: all my wives and buy new ones. Maybe
dialog: even a pretty one... What about you?
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Bribe my way off this god-forsaken planet
dialog: and get assigned a real position that's
dialog: worthy of my talents and training.
dialog: 
dialog: That has got to be the stupidest thing Ker has ever heard.
speaker_heading: ' KER
dialog: } You're going through all this trouble,
dialog: , just so you can get a job!
dialog: '
dialog: '
dialog: '
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Not a job... Respect.
text: The fierce desire is palpable in his voice.
scene_heading: \ EXT. WASHINGTON D.C. -- LIBRARY OF CONGRESS -- THAT DAY
text: The cargo aircraft. is parked next to the Library of Congress.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY OF CONGRESS -- CONTINUOUS |
text: Books on uranium are spread across a table as Jonnie unfolds a
text: . . . RADIOACTIVE-SITE Map of the United States. .He traces his finger ,
dialog: a! to’a mountain in Colorado which bears the radiation symbol ofa |
dialog: ' triangle inside a circle...
speaker_heading: JONNIE .
dialog: Here's where we're supposed to be mining
dialog: the monster's gold. That symbol means ~
dialog: radiation. Which is caused by uranium.
text: He moves his finger to an area in New Mexico.
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: And here's where my tribe is located.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: «--It has the same symbol.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: (looks up at them)
dialog: Do you guys know the names of the places
dialog: where you're from?
speaker_heading: . MICKEY
dialog: A village called Los Alamos...
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: An island in what used to be the country
dialog: of Pennsylvania...
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Which island?
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: Three Mile Island.
text: Jonnie finds Los Alamos and Three Mile Island on the map. And
dialog: gure enough, they both have the radiation symbol.
dialog: 
text: Carlo and Mickey don't understand. Jonnie explains...
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: From what I've been able to figure out,
dialog: many years ago, the monsters attacked
dialog: our planet with a deadly gas. Almost
dialog: everyone died, except a few who made it
dialog: into underground shelters. When the
dialog: air cleared, these people came out, but
text: were then hunted down by the monsters.
dialog: points to the map)
dialog: Only a few mist have made it to the
dialog: safety of these remote areas with
dialog: radiation where the Psychlos couldn't go.
dialog: ' And we're descendants of those people.
text: Mickey nods, realizing this is good news.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: So even if we fail to take over the
dialog: planet, our people will be safe as long
dialog: as they stay in areas with this
dialog: radiation thing? .
dialog: !
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: '
dialog: '
speaker_heading: ’
dialog: '
speaker_heading: : JONNIE
dialog: wn , They'd be safe from the monsters. —
dialog: ' . (the bad news)
dialog: But radiation isn't good for humans,
dialog: either. That's why a lot of people in
dialog: our villages get sick and don't live as
dialog: long as they should.
text: He stares at them, making sure they understand.
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: So if we don't take back our planet, our
dialog: people can't leave these areas or
dialog: they'll be hunted down. But if they
dialog: stay in these areas, over time, more and
dialog: more of them will get sick and die...
dialog: . (the grim reality)
dialog: Either way, the last of humanity will
text: slowly but steadily become extinct.
scene_heading: EXT. LOUISVILLE KENTUCKY -- FORT KNOX -- LATER THAT DAY
text: The aircraft lands next to FORT KNOX. Our guys emerge, carrying
text: large Psychlo equipment cases, and head into the building. oe
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: If gold's so valuable to them, how come
dialog: - - the monsters haven't already taken it
dialog: out of here? :
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: +
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: From what I read in the library, the
text: gold here is stored in lead-lined vaults
dialog: to protect it from the radiation in case
dialog: of a nuclear war...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And that lead would keep the monsters
text: from detecting the gold.
scene_heading: INT. FORT KNOX -- GOLD DEPOSITORY -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Our guys stand in front of an imposing vault.
speaker_heading: CARLO 70
dialog: -..You sure we're going to be able t
dialog: get through this?
text: Jonnie and Mickey fire-up a Psychlo LASER-DRILL.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: One thing you got to give those
dialog: monsters, their mining equipment is
dialog: highly effective.
text: “ghey attack the vault with the high-tech drill.
text: It cuts through, like a hot knife through butter.
text: As the screaming bit, is pulled smoking from the hole, a gold ©
text: light streams out. .
scene_heading: EXT. MINING SIGHT
speaker_heading: HIGH ANGLE
text: Jonnie and the others descend over the mine area. But it
dialog: looks very different.
scene_heading: INT. AIRCRAFT - DAY
text: There are looks’ of concern on their faces.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
text: Looks like an avalanche.
scene_heading: EXT. MINE - DAY
text: A light shines down from the present edge and confirms it.
text: The fissure, thirty feet back from the old edge, had simply
text: _ opened and fallen into the gorge.
text: Jonnie races back to the hundred feet deep shaft edge. He
text: looks around, flashing his light. .
text: Jonnie approaches the hole more closely. Until he sees the
text: slide marks of the cross timbers that had supported the hoist
text: cage over the hole.
dialog: 
dialog: C)
text: A light shines down from the present edge and confirms it.
text: The fissure, thirty feet back from the old edge, had simply
text: opened and fallen into the gorge.
text: Jonnie races back to the hundred feet deep shaft edge. He
text: looks around, flashing his light.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Avalanche.
text: Jonnie approaches the hole more closely. Until he sees the
text: slide marks of the cross timbers that had supported the hoist
text: cage over the hole.
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The place is broadly lit now with lamps the relief crew had
text: put on poles. Carlo and the others pay out the line of a
text: bucket rigged to crane cable...
text: -+.Jonnie and three others are lowered to the bottom of the
dialog: hole.
text: They swing picks at the rocks, filling buckets that are
text: instantly shot aloft to be replaced by empty ones.
speaker_heading: LATER.
dialog: - .
text: The crew has been changed. Twice. But Jonnie is still down
dialog: there.
text: They work in a blur of speed.
text: Another crew arrives. Jonnie stays.
text: Finally, he hears a distant whisper of sound. He holds up his
dialog: hand for silence.
speaker_heading: . VOICE
dialog: (very faintly)
dialog: ..e-air hole...
text: Jonnie grabs a LONG MINE DRILL. He socks the rock drill point
text: into it, and signals the man on the drill motor.
text: They ‘buck the drill into it with the pressure handles. And
text: with a high scream the drill goes through.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Air hose!
dialog: 
dialog: TEE OE SRE IS i i a St en nn ne I I
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The place is broadly lit now with lamps the relief crew had
text: put on poles. Carlo and the others pay out the line of a
text: bucket rigged to crane cable...
text: ..-Jonnie and three others are lowered to the bottom of the
dialog: hole.
text: They swing picks at the rocks, filling buckets that are
text: instantly shot aloft to be replaced by empty ones.
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The crew has been changed. Twice. But Jonnie is still down
dialog: there.
text: They work in a blur of speed.
text: Another crew arrives. Jonnie stays.
text: Finally, he hears a distant whisper of sound. He holds up his
dialog: hand for silence.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: (very faintly)
dialog: +.eair hole...
text: Jonnie grabs a LONG MINE DRILL. He socks the rock drill point
text: into it, and signals the man on the drill motor.
text: They buck the drill into it with the pressure ‘handles And
text: with a high scream the drill goes through.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Air hose!
text: They feed the hose through the drill hole and turn the air
text: compressor on. Air from the drift squeals back past the sides
text: of the hose and into the rescue crew's faces.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LATER
text: They have managed to clear the top of the rockfall and drag
dialog: men out.
text: Passing them to the top, silently in the hoist buckets.
text: A dust- and sweat-covered Jonnie is the last one up.
text: The salvages crew are bundled up, sitting in the snow, most
text: of them drinking something hot.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: We lost the lode.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: That's alright. .
scene_heading: INT. AIRCRAFT - DAY
text: Jonnie yanks the cover from the stacks of gold bars,
dialog: harvested at Fort Knox.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MEADOW -- NIGHT
text: Jonnie stands next to a cargo cage half-full of GOLD BARS as he
text: waits for Terl to land his aircraft and climb out.
text: Terl is impressed, but also instantly suspicious.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Why is it in bars?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: We figured someone of your stature
dialog: wouldn't want something as coarse as
dialog: raw ore.
text: Terl doesn't look convinced until he runs a hand-held COMPOSITION '
text: ANALYZER over the gold. It checks out as the real thing.
text: Hiding his glee, Terl turns back and growls at Jonnie--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I obviously need to adjust the
dialog: schedule. Since you rat-brains had
dialog: enough extra time to smelt the gold
dialog: into bricks, I will now expect the rest
dialog: of the gold in seven days.
text: Not bothering to wait for a response, Terl loads the glorious
text: gold into his aircraft.
scene_heading: INT. MINING SITE CAVE -- NIGET
text: Jonnie and the rest of the men have reassembled back at the cave.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: So, if we don't give him the rest of the
dialog: gold in seven days, he'll kill us. But
dialog: if we do give him the gold...
speaker_heading: MASON
dialog: +.-He no longer needs us.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: Which means he'll kill us.
text: But Jonnie doesn't look the least bit concerned.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: All this means is that our deadline's
dialog: been moved up a bit. We now have seven
dialog: days to take back our planet.
text: The group nods, trying to match Jonnie's confidence as Jonnie
text: gets down to business, opening a MAP of Denver. He points to the
text: ZOO in the middle of the city.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: According to the monster's Field
text: Manual, even a large-scale escape of
dialog: human slaves from the zoo would only
text: constitute a stage-one alarm.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: To the monsters, it'd be like a bunch
text: of horses escaping.
text: No one seems too happy about the comparison. But Jonnie nods...
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Because the monsters only see us as
dialog: harmless animals, they won't be
text: wearing battle-gear when they come to
dialog: round us up...
dialog: ' (a gleam in his eye)
dialog: Which means they won't have on their
dialog: breath-masks
text: Mickey excitedly jumps in again, beating Jonnie to the punch-lir
speaker_heading: MICKEY .
dialog: And any monsters outside a building
dialog: without a breath-mask won't be able to
text: breath once Carlo blows up the dome.
dialog: }
text: All eyes spin to Carlo, who gives a confident thumbs-up.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: Piece-of-cake!
speaker_heading: MASON
dialog: «What about the monsters that are
dialog: inside the buildings when the dome blows?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: They'll survive. And we can expect them
dialog: to come at us in a second assault. But
dialog: that's where you guys come in...
text: His eyes sweep the group as he explains...
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: Everyone's going to train how to use the
dialog: monster's weapons. Then we'll sneak you
dialog: in to blend in with the rest of the
dialog: people who escaped from the zoo...
dialog: (beat)
text: So when Carlo takes out the first wave
dialog: of monsters, you guys'l1 jump out and
text: grab their weapons, then set-up an
dialog: ambush for the second wave of monsters
text: who will be wearing breath-masks.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: Plus, I'll be flying overhead, raining
text: explosives down on the bastards.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Excitement spreads through the group. The plan actually has a
text: chance of working. But then Jonnie adds...
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: But everyone needs to understand. The
dialog: moment we blow the dame, or fight back in
text: anyway, this becomes a stage-two alarm.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: And that's the one thing we can't let
dialog: happen, right?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Right. A stage-two alarm means the
dialog: monsters alert their Home Planet. And
text: moments later, thousands of troops and
text: gas drones will be teleported here.
dialog: (levels with them)
dialog: There's no way we could fight that. We'd
text: all be dead within seconds.
text: The group's excitement instantly turns to confusion.
speaker_heading: MASON
dialog: «».Then what the hell's the point of
dialog: killing all the monsters on this planet, -
dialog: if we're all going to get wiped out?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Because before this thing gets to a
dialog: stage-two alarm...
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: We're going to destroy their Home Planet.
text: Everyone stares at him. He must be joking. But he isn't.
scene_heading: EXT. TEXAS -- FORT HOOD -- THE NEXT DAY
text: Jonnie and a handful of men emerge from a Strategic Weapons Vault
text: carrying out crates of conventional explosives, as well as...
text: A Cruise-Missile NUCLEAR WARHEAD.
scene_heading: INT. FORT HOOD -~- NUCLEAR TRAINING FACILITY -- A LITTLE LATER
text: Mickey restlessly pokes around, exploring the classroom as Jonnie
text: and Carlo huddle over a tech-manual.
text: The nuclear warhead sits on a table in front of them.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: According to this, we have to make-sure
dialog: -the firing-mechanism is--
speaker_heading: MICKEY'S VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: --Hey, look at these guys! Something
dialog: must be wrong with their heads.
text: In the back of the room, Mickey points to an old PHOTO of
text: a BATTALION OF CADETS, all with their hands to their foreheads.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Nothing's wrong. They're saluting. It's
text: a sign of respect.
text: He salutes, showing Mickey, then gets back to the business at
dialog: hand, continuing to read from the manual--
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: ..eMake-sure the firing-mechanism is
text: properly in place and operational.
text: Jonnie and Carlo both take deep breaths, then pick up tools and
text: gingerly go to work on the warhead--
scene_heading: INT. DENVER -- MORGUE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl rips the lid off of a coffin and yanks out the dead Psychlo
text: damping the corpse to the ground and kicking it out of his way.
text: He repeats the process with another coffin, uriceremoniously
text: flinging the corpse to the ground, then fires up a LASER DRILL
text: and blasts away, carving FALSE BOTTOMS into'the caskets.
scene_heading: INT. FORT HOOD -- NUCLEAR TRAINING FACILITY -- THAT DAY
text: With the nuclear warhead now partially dismantled, Jonnie and
text: Carlo carefully remove a lead plate with surgical precision.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: (re: the manual)
dialog: «-.No matter what, we can't touch the
dialog: auto-sensor.
speaker_heading: CARLO
dialog: What's the auto-sensor look like?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: The illustrations are in Appendix-A
dialog: (before Carlo can ask)
dialog: We couldn't find Appendix-A.
speaker_heading: . CARLO
dialog: And if we touch this auto-sensor?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
text: The bomb will detonate.
dialog: 
dialog: Great.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER -- MORGUE -~ CONTINUOUS
text: Still whistling his war song, Terl begins filling the false
text: bottoms in the coffins with his beloved gold.
scene_heading: INT. MINING SITE -- CAVE -- THAT NIGHT
text: Everyone congregates around the map of Denver one last time as
text: Jonnie finalizes the battle plan...
speaker_heading: JONNIE
text: Once the prisoners escape from the zoo,
dialog: Chrissy will lead them here to the Civic
dialog: Center Park... That's where you guys will
dialog: be waiting to blend in with them... And |
dialog: when the guards are sent to round all of
dialog: you up, it should leave minimal resistance
dialog: here at the teleportation platform--
text: He points to a section of the city away from the park.
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: Which is when we'll move in and secure
dialog: the platform, and teleport the nuclear
dialog: weapon up to their planet.
text: Mason points to the nuclear warhead.
speaker_heading: MASON
dialog: -..And you're sure that thing will be
dialog: enough to take-out their entire planet?
speaker_heading: JONNIE
text: Radiation explodes their breath gas.
dialog: Which is exactly the same as their
dialog: planet's atmosphere...
text: Mickey slowly raises his head. A darkness in his voice.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: With all respect, sir, I'd like to be the
text: one who goes up and detonates the weapon.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: It's brave of you to offer. But it's my
dialog: plan, so I go--
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: --You don't understand. I want to go.
dialog: (determined)
dialog: So, I can see my brother again.
dialog: 
text: Jonnie stares at Mickey, his heart breaking. But this time,
text: Jonnie has no choice. He has to tell him.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: There's no point in you going. No human
dialog: can breath on their planet. Plus, the
dialog: gravity is too strong. I'm sorry.
dialog: (soft)
dialog: But your brother was dead within moments
dialog: of being there.
text: ' Mickey returns Jonnie's look without blinking.
speaker_heading: MICKEY :
dialog: I know. : That's why I want to go.
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: So, I can be with him again.
text: A long beat. Then Jonnie finally nods, giving Mickey his wish.
scene_heading: ; , "EX. DENVER -- EMPLOYEE RECREATION HALL -- [HAT NIGHT
text: Ker comes strolling out of the bar, when a figure suddenly steps
text: out of the shadows in front of him.. It's JONNIE--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: There's no way Terl's going to share any
dialog: of the gold with you.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: What the hell are you talking about?
dialog: And what. are you even doing here, you're
dialog: supposed to be mining--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: --Think about it. Terl went through all
dialog: that effort to trick you, so he could
dialog: record you into laying out the plan. It
dialog: was more than just making you the patsy.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Terl got leverage on you so he wouldn't
dialog: have to share the gold.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: How the blast do you know about the
dialog: recording?!
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: - | It sure is interesting some of the discs
text: one can find in Terl's personal vault.
text: Ker's eyes light-up at his sudden good fortune. He pulls his
dialog: blast-gun and orders--
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: Give the disc to me!
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I'm afraid I don't have it with me.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER ZOO -- CHRISSY'S CAGE -- A LITTLE LATER
text: As Jonnie leads Ker to the cage, Chrissy holds up the DISC.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: Tell her to give it to me--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: --I'm afraid we can't just give it to
dialog: you. But you can trade for it.
text: Ker, chuckling at Jonnie's stupidity, re-pulls his Blast-Gun.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: I don't think so, crap-brain! Because
dialog: if you don't give me the disc, I‘'ll--
text: At Jonnie's signal--
scene_heading: INT. CHRISSY'S CAGE ~- CONTINUOUS
text: CHRISSY immediately hands the disc to someone in her cage, who in
text: turns hands it off to another person, this continues until...
text: The disc reaches someone at the edge of the cage, who pitches vit”
scene_heading: INT. NEXT CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Ker tries to point his gun at the humans in warning, but the
text: process is repeated too fast for him to follow as...
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER ZOO -- CONTINUOUS
text: A human chain moves the disc from hand to hand, cage to cage, until
text: before Ker knows it, the disc disappears from view around a corner.
scene_heading: EXT. CHRISSY'S CAGE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Ker turns back to Jonnie with a friendly smile.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: .--What kind of trade?
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CHRISSY'S CAGE ~~ A LITTLE LATER
text: Ker uses a special tool to remove the explosive collar from
text: Chrissy's neck, then trades the collar for the disc.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Bow about we make another trade.
dialog: (motions to the
speaker_heading: zoo cage KEY)
dialog: As a male member of your species, you
dialog: can understand why I would want to come
dialog: and 'visit' with her-- .
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: --Forget it, crap-head! You just keep
dialog: your mind on getting the rest of the
dialog: gold!
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Too bad...
text: (holds up a SECOND DISC)
dialog: Because the gold is almost ready and I
dialog: thought you might want some incriminating
dialog: evidence on your friend, Terl.
text: Ker doesn't have to think about it. He immediately trades the
text: zoo key for the second disc. As soon as Ker is gone... . :
text: ‘ Chrissy gives Jonnie a confused look.
speaker_heading: CHRISSY
dialog: Won't the monster in charge be able to
dialog: see I'm no longer wearing the collar.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: (hands her the key)
dialog: After tonight, it won't matter much
dialog: either way.
text: There's an unspoken tension between them. The first time they've
text: alone since he left their village. Chrissy tries to cover it with
speaker_heading: CHRISSY
dialog: I know you don't believe in fate, but
dialog: I've always known you were destined to
dialog: do something great...
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: «.-We're going to do something great.
dialog: All of us, together.
text: -She nods, but there's still something not being said. The longest
text: of beats. And finally, Jonnie struggles to find the right words.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: . JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: And we need to do this not only for our
dialog: own freedom, but for the possibility of a
dialog: life for the children.
text: Chrissy looks at him and starts to ask something, but doesn't.
text: He returns her look, clarifying...
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: A life for our children.
dialog: (quickly adds)
dialog: Of course, only if you'd be willing to
dialog: take an ‘arrogant greener’ as your
dialog: husband.
speaker_heading: CHRISSY
dialog: I don't know...
dialog: (warm smile)
dialog: I think I could live with that.
text: They embrace. Each of them knowing it might be the last time.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY HEADQUARTERS ~- THAT NIGHT
text: Terl-comes strolling into the office, but suddenly stops in his
text: tracks. EVERY MONITOR in the room is playing a recording of-- ..
scene_heading: TERL (ON THE MONITORS ).
dialog: ...We'd have to use explosives. Home
dialog: Office would detect them and send down a
dialog: survey team, which means we wouldn't be
dialog: able to keep the gold for ourselves.
text: Ker smugly pauses the disc, FREEZING the guilty evidence.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: I've been thinking. Eighty-twenty is a
dialog: pretty fair distribution of the gold...
dialog: (loving every
dialog: moment of this)
dialog: But J should get the eighty per cent.
text: Terl stares at him. And without hesitation:
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Congratulations! I knew there was a
dialog: true Psychlo in you somewhere!
text: Ker remains on guard. He's not about to fall for any traps.
text: But Terl seems genuinely happy, if not downright ecstatic.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: You finally figured out how to get
dialog: proper leverage on someone.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: Which means I haven't wasted my time
dialog: trying to train you!
text: Ker can't believe it. This is going much better than he thought.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: You're not upset?
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Don't be crazy! You don't know how long
dialog: I've been waiting for this day. And I
dialog: know just the perfect way to celebrate--
text: He pulls his Blast-Gun and slides it into kill position--
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: What are you doing?! You can't kill me!
dialog: (explains) .
dialog: I made a copy of your disc and gave it
dialog: to someone for safe keeping. And if
dialog: anything happens to me, they'll turn it
dialog: into the authorities.
text: A frozen beat. Then Terl has to lower the gun with a sigh.
speaker_heading: KER (cont'd) -
dialog: It's your own fault, sir.
dialog: (good-natured)
dialog: You were just too good of a teacher.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: And how about giving the old teacher a
dialog: clue as to who this person might be?
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: You insult yourself, sir. You taught me
dialog: better than to fall for that one.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Well, then how the hell am I supposed to
dialog: know who it is. I mean, it could be
dialog: anyone on this damn planet... It could
dialog: be one of the mechanics. It could be a
dialog: concubine. It could be someone in the
dialog: communications office. Hell, it could
dialog: even be...
text: Terl opens his desk drawer and calmly pulls out--
scene_heading: THE BARTENDER'S SEVERED HEAD
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: Our friendly bartender!
text: Ker's face immediately goes death-white. Terl tosses the head to K
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: You know, you really should chose your
dialog: friends a bit more carefully...
text: Ker looks from the head to the desk drawer to Terl, realizing
text: Terl had this planned all along. His body slumps in defeat.
text: Terl raises his blast gun.
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: Don't shoot! You win! I'll go back to
dialog: being the patsy!
text: He fumbles a disc out of his pocket and hands it to Terl.
speaker_heading: KER (cont'd)
dialog: See? That's the disc of me laying out
dialog: the plan. You can have it back. Which
dialog: means I'm back to being the patsy. And
dialog: you can't kill the patsy, right?!
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Here's your final exam. Try real hard
dialog: to pass it... When committing a crime,
dialog: how many patsies does one need?
text: As Ker chews on this, Terl reminds him--
speaker_heading: . TERL (cont'd)
dialog: And while you're thinking, remember all
dialog: the hard work we put into getting
dialog: leverage on the Planetship. A process,
dialog: I might add, that you were quite
dialog: resourceful in helping with.
text: The life drains from Ker as...
speaker_heading: KER
dialog: The Planetship ordered us to train the
dialog: man-animals to mine the gold. So, if
dialog: anyone found out, he'd be responsible.
dialog: (practically crying)
dialog: And you only need one patsy.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Very impressive. You pass the exam with
dialog: highest marks.
text: KABLAM! Terl shoots a fist-sized hole through Ker's face.
speaker_heading: TERL (cont'd)
dialog: But I'm afraid you failed the course.
text: Ker is dead long before he hits the ground.
dialog: 
dialog: \
dialog: /
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER Z00 -- CONTINUOUS
text: A pair of sentries make their usual nightly rounds, when they
text: hear a strange noise. Turning, they catch a glimpse of--
scene_heading: ‘A LONE HUMAN SLAVE
text: Racing away up a path and disappearing around a corner.
speaker_heading: 200 GUARD
dialog: How the hell did that one get out...
text: The other guard shrugs, unconcerned. After all, man-animals aren't
text: that fast. So they calmly walk-jog after the escapee--
scene_heading: EXT. AROUND THE BEND ~~ A LITTLE LATER
text: With the escapee now in tow, the guards head back to the zoo.
text: One of them shakes his head in amusement--
speaker_heading: ZOO GUARD
dialog: Not only are these man-animals slow, but
dialog: they've got to be the stupidest things.
dialog: (jeering laugh) .
dialog: It didn't even have the sense to hide. It
dialog: just stood there, letting us-- | :
text: The words freeze in his throat as they turn a bend and...
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER ZOO -- CONTINUOUS
text: Every single cage is empty. Not a human in sight. The only sound
text: the eerie creaking of open cage doors swaying gently ~in the night.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER -- A LITTLE LATER
text: KLAXON HORNS crank-up, wailing into the darkness.
scene_heading: INT. MORGUE -- CONTINUOUS
text: TERL finishes loading the coffins full of his precious gold onto
text: a cart as he barks into his radio--
speaker_heading: TERL (INTO RADIO)
dialog: -+.Then send all available guards to
dialog: round them up! I'm busy, you don't have
dialog: to bother me with every little detail
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- MOMENTS LATER
text: The TELEPORTATION SUPERVISOR hangs up from a radio call--
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ‘5
dialog: /
dialog: 
scene_heading: TELEPORTATION SUPERVISOR
dialog: Those security guys at the zoo have got
dialog: to be the biggest crap-heads! What did
text: they do, leave all the man-animal cages
dialog: wide open?!
dialog: (point to several
dialog: of the guards)
dialog: All non-essential personnel are to go
text: over and help with the round-up.
text: The selected guards grumble about having to go, and...
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER -- STREETS -- CONTINUOUS
text: Join the steady flow of other Psychlos responding to the call.
text: But no one's in too big of a rush. It's just a man-animal escape.
scene_heading: EXT. CIVIC CENTER PARK -—- A LITTLE LATER
text: Chrissy and the escaped humans watch as the Psychlos move in on
text: them with ROPES, ELECTRIC PROD-STICKS, and NETS.
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: _ The supervisor instructs one of the two remaining guards.”
scene_heading: TELEPORTATION SUPERVISOR
dialog: Go haul those two new guys out of the
dialog: crapper and send them too--
text: The guards share a knowing chuckle.
speaker_heading: FIRST GUARD
text: Mozzontom's revenge.
speaker_heading: SECOND GUARD
dialog: Until you get used to the water, blasted
dialog: local parasites will get you every time--
text: Still chuckling, he shuffles off to a SQUAT BUILDING.
scene_heading: ’ INT. NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Keeping a careful eye out the window, Mickey keys a RADIO.
speaker_heading: MICKEY (INTO RADIO)
dialog: There's three monsters remaining...
text: Two are staying at the platform. One is
text: heading into a building to the east--
dialog: (checks his map)
dialog: Which is the latrine.
dialog: 
dialog: \
dialog: }
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MINING SITE ~- CONTINUOUS
text: Across from the teleportation platform, Jonnie whispers to Mason.
speaker_heading: , JONNIE
dialog: I'll take the two at the platform. You
dialog: take the one in the latrine--
text: Mason nods and they silently divide up, slipping through the
text: night like shadows.
scene_heading: INT. SQUAT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS
text: The guard heads inside the latrine, hollering to the occupied stall
scene_heading: TELEPORTATION GUARD
dialog: Time to earn your pay--
text: One of the stall doors opens and a Psychlo stumbles out, pulling
text: up his pants. He looks more than a little green.
speaker_heading: NEW PSYCHLO
dialog: I knew coming to one of these remote
dialog: rim-star planets was a mistake.
text: A second Psychlo emerges from another stall, not looking any
text: better. They trail after the guard, who heads back for the door. -
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPO! RTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: The supervisor shakes his head, complaining to the remaining guard.
scene_heading: TELEPORTATION SUPERVISOR
dialog: «If any of the man-animals get broken
dialog: in the round-up, you just know the brass
dialog: will use it as an excuse to justify
dialog: cutting our pay again--
text: A KILL CLUB flies through the air, smashing into his head.
text: The fierce impact jars the Psychlo forward, but doesn't kill him.
text: He spins around to see what the hell just hit him as a--
speaker_heading: PICK-AX
dialog: = - Instant death. And before
text: the first guard can react, Jonnie pulls a--
speaker_heading: HUNTING KNIFE
text: And slits his throat.
speaker_heading: eR SS
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE DOME -- CONTINUOUS
text: Carlo lands the aircraft on the apex of the dome and jumps out
text: with an armful of EXPLOSIVES.
scene_heading: EXT. LATRINE -- CONTINUOUS
text: The second guard comes strolling out of the latrine as a--
speaker_heading: PICK AX-BLADE
text: Slams deep into his chest. Mason pulls his knife to finish the
text: monster off, but freezes at the unexpected sight of--
scene_heading: TWO OTHER PYSCHLOS
text: Heading out of the building. One of the Psychlos immediately
text: pulls his blast-gun and FIRES at-- .
text: Mason, who tries to leap out of the way. But the shot blows off he
text: of his leg. Sending him crumpled helpless to the ground as...
text: The Psychlo aims his gun dead center between Mason's eyes and--
speaker_heading: JONNIE'S KNIFE
text: Screams through the air, imbedding deep in the Psychlo's throat.
text: An enormous paw blurs in the air, coming at hin.. Talons rake -
text: the side of his face.
text: Jonnie has the gun in position, and fires at a huge chest. He
text: punches blast after blast into it, driving him back.
scene_heading: INT. LATRINE ~- CONTINUOUS
text: The first guard, pick-ax still buried in his chest, clings to
text: life as he manages pulls his radio...
speaker_heading: PSYCHLO (INTO RADIO)
dialog: We're under attack. From man-animals
dialog: with weapons. They've already killed--
text: Jonnie flashes inside, knocking away the radio, then slits the
text: Psychlo's throat.
scene_heading: INT. COMMUNICATION HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: An ALARM suddenly goes off on a long console. A COMMUNICATIONS
text: OFFICER checks it, then spins to his SUPERVISOR--
dialog: ‘ '
dialog: 
scene_heading: COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
dialog: Sir, I have unconfirmed reports of a
dialog: ‘man-animal' revolt. And
dialog: have just been set-off on top the d:
text: The supervisor hurries over.
scene_heading: EXT. NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM ~- MOMENTS LATER
text: From his look-out position, Mickey spots a group of armed
text: Psychlos sprinting toward the teleportation platform.
speaker_heading: MICKEY (INTO RADIO)
text: Five Monsters Approaching! Heavily
dialog: Armed! From The South--
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie hurries to apply a make-shift field tourniquet to Mason's
text: leg, then drags him behind the relative safety of--
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie. pulls his blast-gun, waiting for the Psychlos to come _into,
text: range. As they do, he OPENS UP FIRE--
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN ROAD —- CONTINUOUS
text: One of the Psychlos goes down. And another. The remaining three
text: scramble for cover, returning fire--
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER
text: BLASTER-FIRE screams all around Jonnie, pinning him down as
text: Carlo's voice suddenly comes over the radio--
speaker_heading: CARLO'S VOICE (FROM RADIO)
dialog: The explosives are set! How long ‘till
dialog: I can blow the dome--
speaker_heading: JONNIE (INTO RADIO)
dialog: --Hold on! I'm afraid we've got a
dialog: little situation here.
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE DOME -- CONTINUOUS
text: Carlo finishes planting five sets of explosives in a DIAMOND-
text: SHAPE around the dome's apex, when he whirls as--
text: A PSYCHLO CRAFTlLands on the dome behind him.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CARLO (INTO RADIO)
dialog: Okay, But Don't Make It Too Long! I've
dialog: Got Company Up Here--
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION FIELD —- CONTINUOUS
text: The three Psychlo Guards run from cover to cover, working their
text: way to set-up a cross-fire on Jonnie. From one of their radios--
speaker_heading: COMMUNICATION OFFICER (FROM RADIO)
dialog: Please report! What is the security
dialog: status of the teleportation platform--
text: One of the Psychlo's pulls his radio to respond-—
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie tries to draw a bead on him, but the shot is obstructed.
text: So Jonnie grabs a ROCK and throws it behind--
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION FIELD -- CONTINUOUS
text: The Psychlo, who keys his radio--
scene_heading: . PSYCHLO .,
dialog: This is Response Team Leader at the
dialog: teleportation field--
text: Be instinctively turns toward the sudden NOISE of the rock
text: landing behind him, inadvertently stepping out of his cover--
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Which is all Jonnie needs. KABLAM! He drops the Psychlo.
text: The other two monsters open up fire on--
text: Jonnie, who returns their fire, but his gun suddenly runs dry
text: with a revealing CLICK...CLICK...CLICK...
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION FIELD -- CONTINUOUS
text: Hearing this, the two Psychlos immediately charge the bunker.
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie desperately searches for another weapon. But all he has
dialog: is his knife. Which won't do much good against...
text: The two Psychlos storming into the bunker, turning their blast-
text: guns on him at point-blank-range--
dialog: 
dialog: |
speaker_heading: JONNIE |
dialog: Are you sure you want to kill me without |
dialog: first checking with your superiors?
text: The Psychlos FREEZE. Not so mich at what Jonnie said. But because-- |
speaker_heading: A PSYCELO
dialog: It speaks Psychlo!
text: Jonnie nods, speaking a little slower than usual.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: That's right... Which should make it
dialog: obvious that I've been trained as part of
dialog: a secret high-level operation...
text: The two Psychlos exchange a look, then pull their radios.
speaker_heading: JONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: Although, before you radio your
dialog: superiors, maybe there is one other thing
dialog: you should be more concerned about.
speaker_heading: A PSYCHLO
dialog: And what the hell is that--
text: KABLAM!! One Psychlo goes down in a‘bloody heap as-- .
text: Jonnie has stalled them long enough for MICKEY to sneak down into
text: position. The remaining Psychlo turns his gun on the young twin--
text: But Jonnie jumps the Psychlo from behind, slashing its throat
text: with his hunting knife.
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Jonnie and Mickey load the NUCLEAR WARHEAD onto the platform, then--
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie races over and enters the activation sequence into the
text: console. The high-pitched HUM fills the air as the generator-
text: .G@ynamos start winding up. Growing louder as...
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: Teleportation Sequence Initiated.
dialog: a ;
dialog: ( )
dialog: Teleportation in twenty... In nineteen...
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE DOME -- CONTINUOUS
text: A heavily armed PSYCHLO SECURITY RESPONSE TEAM has deployed from
text: the aircraft and is firing at--
dialog: 
text: Carlo, who is forced to dive back into his own--
scene_heading: INT. AIRCRAFT -- COCKPIT -- CONTINUOUS
text: And take off. One hand gripping a DETONATOR, Carlo watches as the
text: Psychlos move to investigate the explosives set around the dome's
dialog: apex below.
speaker_heading: CARLO (INTO RADIO)
dialog: If I Don't Blow The Dome Now, I‘m Not
dialog: Going To Be Able To--
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
text: The drumming of the generators reverberates through the air as
text: the automated voice finishes the countdown to teleportation...
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: In five... In four... In three...
text: Jonnie turns, double-checking that Mickey, the nuclear detonator
text: in hand, is on the platform along with the warhead.
speaker_heading: JONNIE {TNTO RADIO)
speaker_heading: CARLO'S VOICE (FROM RADIO)
dialog: Thought You'd Never Ask--
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: In two... In one...
dialog: (a buzzing sound)
dialog: Teleportation Sequence Canceled.
dialog: And before Jonnie can react--
text: TERL presses a Blast-Gun against the side of his head.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Hope I'm not interrupting anything.
text: An eerie stillness as the generator-dynamos slowly fall silent.
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE DOME -- CONTINUOUS
text: The Psychlos on the dome have already disarmed one set of the
text: explosives surrounding the apex, and are removing another as--
scene_heading: INT. AIRCRAFT -- COCKPIT -- CONTINUOUS
text: Carlo hits the detonator--
dialog: 
dialog: ©
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE DOME -~ CONTINUOUS
text: KABBOONM!!! The Psychlos are blown to bits. But with only three
text: of the five explosive packages in place, the dome SPIDER-WEBS...
text: But doesn't collapse.
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -~- MOMENTS LATER
text: Keeping his gun trained on Jonnie and Mickey, Terl keys his radio.
speaker_heading: TERL (INTO RADIO)
dialog: This is Security Chief, Terl. I've
dialog: personally taken care of the situation
text: at the teleportation field. There is no
dialog: need to send additional guards
scene_heading: COMMUNICATION OFFICER'S VOICE (FROM RADIO)
dialog: Yes, sir... And should we continue
dialog: rounding-up the man-animals in the park?
text: Terl locks eyes with Jonnie as he calmly responds--
speaker_heading: TERL (INTO RADIO)
dialog: Negative. Our boys have been working:
dialog: hard and deserve a little fun.. Tell
dialog: them to set their weapons to kill
text: position and happy-hunting.
dialog: (grins)
text: Exterminate all the man-animals at will.
text: Jonnie returns the stare in helpless anguish ‘as--
scene_heading: EXT. CIVIC CENTER PARK -- MOMENTS LATER
text: A collective roar of enthusiasm goes up from the Psychlos as the
text: orders are relayed. They toss down their nets and ropes and draw
text: their blasters, setting them into KILL-POSITION, then--
text: Eire_on the unarmed humans. Chrissy urgently pulls her radio.
speaker_heading: CBRISSY (INTO RADIO)
dialog: They're Opening Up Fire On Us! What's
dialog: Going On With The Dome--
speaker_heading: CARLO'S VOICE (FROM RADIO)
dialog: ~-Hold On, I'm taking It Out!
scene_heading: INT. ATRCRAFT -- CONTINUOUS
text: Carlo pilots the aircraft, sending it screaming full-speed right
text: for the spider-web of cracked glass surrounding the dome's apex--
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE DOME
text: The aircraft BLASTS straight into the dome. The jarring impact
text: causing the high-tech glass to BUCKLE... .
text: But the dome's structural integrity remains intact.
scene_heading: EXT. CIVIC CENTER PARK -- CONTINUOUS
text: The blood bath continues as the Psychlos blast down the unarmed
text: humans like targets in some amusement park game.
text: Chrissy desperately grabs a BRANCH from the ground and throws it
dialog: like a kill-club--
text: The impact knocks the Blaster-Gun out of the paw of a Psychlo,
dialog: who is surprised a man-animal was able to do that...
text: Let alone a female man-animal. Chrissy and the Psychlo both dive
dialog: for the weapon.
speaker_heading: RABLAM!
text: Chrissy's the one who comes up with it, blasting a hole through
text: the monsters chest, then spins, firing on another Psychlo.
text: One of, Jonnie's trained men springs forward out of the crowd, grabbin
text: the weapon from the fallen Psychlos, then joins Chrissy in firing on-
text: The other Psychlos, who realizing they're under attack, aggressively
text: return fire, catching the rebel fighter in a cross-fire, tearing him
text: to shreds. The Psychlos then turn their weapons on Chrissy, as--
scene_heading: INT. AIRCRAFT -- CONTINUOUS
text: Carlo tries to reverse the aircraft, but the engine impotently
text: grinds, mortally damaged in the collision.
text: The TORTURED SCREAMS of people dying below can be heard over the
dialog: radio. And Carlo knows he has no choice...
text: Be reaches behind him to an impressive collection of EXPLOSIVE
text: DEVICES and grabs a GRENADE, pulling the pin.
speaker_heading: CARLO (INTO RADIO)
dialog: The dome will be blown in five...four...
text: He tosses the grenade back with the other explosives and stares
text: ahead with grim determination, continuing the countdown to his own
dialog: ath.
speaker_heading: CARLO (INTO RADIO)
dialog: Three... Two... One--
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The grenade DETONATES. Setting-off the rest of the explosives
scene_heading: EXT. TOP OF THE DOME -- CONTINUOUS
text: The aircraft EXPLODING in a MASSIVE FIREBALL. The powerful blast
text: is finally enough to completely shatter the weakened dome--
scene_heading: EXT. CIVIC CENTER PARK -- CONTINUOUS
text: Chrissy is under intense fire from all directions. She's forced
text: back against a side of the building, trapped as the Psychlos
text: move in for the kill, firing relentlessly at her, when from above...
text: A sky-full of snowflake-sized pieces of glass rain down,
text: shimmering like ethereal spirits dancing in the night air.
text: But as beautiful as it is, the result is deadly to the Psychlos.
text: Without breath-masks, they drop to the ground, convulsing--
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: In contrast to TERL, who calmly pulls a breath-mask from his pocket.
text: As he secures the mask, he explains to Jonnie with a smirk--
speaker_heading: : TERL . LO
dialog: If I were you, and thank-Psychlo I'm
dialog: not, blowing up the dome would have been
dialog: my move as well...
scene_heading: EXT. CIVIC CENTER PARK -- CONTINUOUS
text: The rest of Jonnie's men grab the weapons from the now dead monsters
text: and join Chrissy in taking position to ambush the second wave--
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: rerl keeps his gun trained on Jonnie and Mickey, while calmly
dialog: keying his radio--
speaker_heading: TERL (INTO RADIO)
text: Uplink a red-alert to Home Planet.
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: It's time we eradicate these pitiful
dialog: man-animals once and for all.
scene_heading: COMMUNICATION OFFICER'S VOICE (FROM RADIO)
dialog: With pleasure, sir--
text: Terl plucks the NUCLEAR WARHEAD off the teleporter and nonchalantly
text: tosses it into the field behind him...
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Then loads the coffins full of his precious gold onto the
dialog: platform.
scene_heading: INT. COMMUNICATIONS HEADQUARTERS -- CONTINUOUS
text: The Communications Supervisor finishes punching an authorization cod:
text: into the console and slams a KEY CARD into a slot and turns it--
scene_heading: EXT. PLANET PSYCHLO ~- CONTINUOUS
text: Under a perpetual purple sky, the Home Planet's automated response
text: system immediately goes to work. Towering ROBOTIC ARMS load--
scene_heading: MASSIVE GAS DRONES
dialog: Onto a teleportation platform as--
text: THOUSANDS OF SHOCK TROOPS
text: All in full-on battle gear, swarm onto the platform.
scene_heading: EXT. EARTH -- TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl finishes loading his gold onto the Platform, then \ keeping the
text: gun on Jonnie...
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Even though you're just a rat-brain, I
dialog: must admit you gave me quite a sporting
dialog: challenge. And you'll make a hell of an
dialog: interesting conversation piece once
dialog: you're stuffed and hanging on the wall
text: at the Academy Alumni Club.
text: With the weapon trained on Jonnie, Terl backs up to the control
text: bunker. Mickey can't keep the panic from his voice.
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: What are we going to do?! He sent the
dialog: red-alert--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: --We! re going to let him start-up the
dialog: teleportation sequence...
dialog: (fierce resolve)
dialog: Then no matter what happens to me, just
dialog: make sure you and the nuclear weapon are
text: on the platform.
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER —~ CONTINUOUS
text: The high-pitched HUM of the generators start to fill the air as--
dialog: 
text: Terl punches in the last of the commands for teleportation.
speaker_heading: ADTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: Teleportation Sequence Initiated.
dialog: (a i )
dialog: Teleportation in twenty...
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie charges off the platform. Terl spins and FIRES at him--
text: But Jonnie manages to dive clear of the shot, then pivots with
text: blurring speed and throws his--
speaker_heading: HUNTING KNIFE
text: Through the air, sending it straight at--
speaker_heading: TERL
text: Who tries to twist out of the way, but the knife slams deep into
text: his shoulder. Terl pulls it out as--
speaker_heading: JONNIE
text: Launches himself like a possessed demon straight into him.
text: Fueled by primal rage, Jonnie is able to Jock the’ much-bigger
text: Psychlo to the ground, jarring the gun from Terl's grip.
text: But Terl is bigger and stronger. He pins Jonnie down and
text: savagely tears into him with his razor-like claws--
text: Jonnie lunges up and grabs Terl's wounded shoulder with both
text: hands. Squeezing and twisting as hard as he can, Jonnie wrenches
text: Terl off of him. But the victory is short lived as...
text: Terl rolls over and is now able to get back onto his feet.
text: But. Jonnie hangs on. and stays focused on the monster's weak spot.
text: Digging one hand into Terl's wounded shoulder, while PUMMELING at
text: it in a mad blur with the other, inflicting what damage he can--
text: Hissing in pain, Terl swats Jonnie back to the ground then grabs
text: his blast-gun and stands, towering over--
text: Jonnie, who can see behind Terl, where...
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Mickey struggles with all his might, just managing to boost the
text: nuclear warhead back onto the platform.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: Teleportation in twelve... In eleven...
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION FIELD -- CONTINUOUS
text: Jonnie locks eyes with Terl, trying to keep him from noticing
text: Mickey scrambling onto the platform with the nuclear weapon.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Look, I know you're going to kill me.
dialog: But I have one last request.
text: Terl aims the gun straight down between Jonnie's eyes.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: I'm afraid you're in no position to be
dialog: making requests—
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: --I know. But I'm begging you.
dialog: (pleads)
text: With the gas drones coming, is there any
dialog: way to spare one human life... Because
dialog: you were right about the young lady
dialog: you put the collar on. I do know her.
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: She was to be my wife.
text: Terl can't believe Jonnie's stupidity. Chuckles with glee.
speaker_heading: TERL .
dialog: Thanks for reminding me, rat-brain.
speaker_heading: (pulls the REMOTE
dialog: to Chrissy's collar)
dialog: Before you die, you should have the
dialog: pleasure of knowing what happens to your
dialog: little "wife" to be.
text: Terl raises the remote with one paw, the other pointing the
text: blast-gun down at Jonnie, who stares him straight in the eye.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Trust me. You don't want to do that--
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: Trust me. I want nothing more--
text: Terl plunges the remote's button. Obviously not realizing that--
text: When Jonnie grabbed his shoulder, he had clasped the explosive
text: collar from Chrissy under one of the gold epaulettes and--
dialog: 
text: + Blood gushing from his shoulder
text: where it used to be connected to an arm.
text: Terl is too stunned to react as--
text: Jonnie dives to the ground, grabbing the blaster-gun still
text: connected to what's left of Terl's arm.
scene_heading: EXT. CONTROL BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS
text: The humming of the generators grows louder.
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: In five... In four... In three...
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION FIELD -—- CONTINUOUS
text: Keeping the blast-gun on Terl, Jonnie turns to check on--
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Mickey pulls out the nuclear detonator. A sense of deep pride at
text: the mission he's about to perform. As the countdown finishes--
text: Mickey turns and gives his friend Jonnie a SALUTE.
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION FIELD -- CONTINUOUS.
text: Jonnie salutes Mickey back with eyes full of respect. The field
text: suddenly rocked by a DEAFENING ROAR and BLINDING LIGHT, and--
scene_heading: EXT. PLANET PSYCHLO -- TELEPORTATION CENTER -- CONTINUOUS
text: With the GAS DRONES and shock troops all loaded for earth, the
dialog: countdown for teleportation is at...
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: Teleportation in five... In four...
text: At the far end of a seemingly endless row of platforms--
scene_heading: EXT. PLANET PSYCHLO TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: MICKEY appears, along with Terl's coffins and the nuclear weapon.
text: The Psychlo workers in the vicinity laugh at Mickey's fate. But
text: Mickey stares at them without blinking--
speaker_heading: QO
speaker_heading: MICKEY
dialog: I know I'm going to die...
text: The Psychlos obviously don't speak English and have no idea what
text: he's saying. But they crowd around in morbid curiosity as...
text: The planet's overwhelming gravity crushes Mickey to the ground.
text: The young twin's eyes bulging, he announces to the crowd--
speaker_heading: MICKEY (cont'd)
dialog: But so are you--
text: This cracks up the others. With his final moment of life,
text: Mickey pushes the detonator button... :
scene_heading: EXT. TELEPORTATION PLATFORM -- CONTINUOUS
text: As the countdown to earth's destruction finishes--
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE (FROM CONSOLE)
dialog: In two... In one--
scene_heading: KKKAAABBBBBLLLLLAAAAAAAMMMMMMMI III ELL Pil
text: The GAS DRONES and SHOCK TROOPS vaporized into oblivion--
text: Along. with everything else in the path of the mushroom cloud .-
text: slamming through the city like a tidal wave. of pure destruction.
text: Blasting apart countless Psychlos and their buildings. And after
text: the initial blast subsides, the radiation reacts with the air-~
text: Causing the AIR TO EXPLODE in an instantaneous chain-reaction
text: spreading out faster than the eye can see, as...
text: The atmosphere is literally burnt away from the planet.
scene_heading: EXT. SPACE -- CONTINUOUS
text: A blinding white flame expanding out until it surrounds the
text: mammoth planet.- Burning with searing intensity until--
text: THE ENTIRE PLANET EXPLODES INTO NOTHINGNESS!!!
speaker_heading: SLOW FADE
scene_heading: EXT. FORT KNOX -- DAY
text: An aircraft lands at the fort, and Jonnie and Chrissy emerge.
text: Mason, sporting a finely-crafted wooden leg, steps up to greet them.
speaker_heading: MASON
dialog: We're all but done here. The painters
dialog: just finished yesterday.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: S
dialog: 
text: Jonnie nods as they head into the fort.
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: Good. Because now that we've got
dialog: everyone out of the contaminated areas,
dialog: we're going to need your help organizing
text: a summit with the clan leaders.
scene_heading: INT. FORT -- LOWER LEVEL -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Mason leads Jonnie and Chrissy down a long armored hallway and
text: through a thick vault door, to where--
scene_heading: INT. INNER VAULT -- CONTINUOUS
text: Terl, a stump where his arm used to be, downs a shot of kerbango
text: in his new ‘living quarters', which have been painted purple for
text: him. He stares at Jonnie through the steel bars.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: What kind of barbaric species are you
dialog: rat-brains? Either put me to work as a
dialog: slave or have the decency to vaporize me.
dialog: (with revulsion)
dialog: But to imprison me--
speaker_heading: : JONNIE
dialog: --Oh, we'll put you to work, don't worry. °
dialog: (explains)
dialog: You told me yourself, Earth isn't the
dialog: only planet that you Psychlos colonized.
speaker_heading: CBRISSY
dialog: .--And those other Psychlos out there
dialog: probably aren't too pleased about what _
dialog: happened to their Home Planet.
text: Terl stares at her in amazement, then eyes Jonnie.
speaker_heading: TERL
text: She speaks Psychlo.
speaker_heading: CHRISSY
dialog: We all do...
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: We figure it might come in handy if
dialog: those other Psychlos ever decide to
dialog: come by for a little ‘visit.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: One could only hope.
dialog: A
speaker_heading: JONNIE ~
dialog: Which make you useful to us. After all,
dialog: you did graduate top of your class.
speaker_heading: CBRISSY
dialog: So you must have some understanding of
text: Psychlo battle tactics and strategy.
speaker_heading: TERL
dialog: (snide laugh)
dialog: And why the hell would I ever help you?!
speaker_heading: JONNIE
dialog: I'm just guessing that you wouldn't want .
dialog: the other Psychlos to know that it was
dialog: your greed and corruption that allowed
dialog: us to destroy their home planet.
text: Terl stops laughing. His eyes narrowing into slits as Jonnie
text: holds up a DISC.
speaker_heading: SJONNIE (cont'd)
dialog: I may be a rat-brain, but I was smart
dialog: enough to figure out how to make a copy
dialog: of this before I gave it to Ker.
text: On Terl's look of complete and utter defeat, we...
speaker_heading: FADE TO
dialog: 
