text: THE BATTLE FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES
dialog: Working Title
dialog: First Draft Story Outline
dialog: by
speaker_heading: PAUL DEHN
dialog: July 5, 1972
text: We rove Modern City's Civic Center soon after sunrise, Its
text: otherwise deserted streets (over which we SUPER the date
dialog: "2004 A.D,“) are being prepared for some sort of festivity
text: by groups of early WORKERS: human males in red, females in
text: blue. We watch:
text: - Group 1 hosing down a sidewalk,
text: - Group 2 sweeping clean behind Group 1, and passing:
text: - Group 3 brushing adhesive “size” on the back of a
text: poster held face downwards on a cafe tabletop.
text: - Group 4 attaching a furled fleg to the base of a
dialog: flagpole,
text: - Group 5 scrubbing (and masking) the plinth of a stone
text: statue, whose shoes only are visible below the hem of
text: a sculpted robe. A loudening drum-roll, as the Scrubbers
text: step back to reveal the plinth's inscription: "CAESAR I",
text: Then triurphal MUSIC crashes in over a CUT TO:
text: The flag unfurling in the wind as it reaches the mast-head,
text: Against a yellow ground, the head of an Ape (CAESAR) rises
text: from syrbolically blood-red flames, Over the flag, as it
text: flutters, we SUPER MAIN TITLE:
text: “BATTLE FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES"
dialog: and CUT TO:
dialog: 2.
text: - Group 3 affixing the poster to the wall. It bears the
text: Same device as the flag, but the head is profiled and
dialog: subscribed: "HAIL, CAESAR"
dialog: cUT TO:
text: - Dramatic shot of the statue's head, Imperial Caesar
text: looks down on his subjects, one of whom (a human male)
text: is climbing up a ladder to scrub the great stone face -
text: from which, as he scrubs, we CUT TO:
text: Caesar's own face. A human hand is combing his hair and beard,
text: We PULL BACK to reveal Caesar seated in a futuristic "robing-
text: room" before a tall mirror. He is attended by his red-uniformed
text: VALET, who now ceases his ministrations and steps back to
dialog: otserve the reflected result,
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Thank you, George.
text: As Valet backs out of shot, MACDONALD (Caesar's Negro overseer
text: in "CCNQUVEST") moves into the mirror and stands behind the
text: Chimpanzee who is now his raster. We shall learn that he is
dialog: the only Human in Modern City permitted to wear clothes rather
text: than a servant's uniform,
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Your escort is ready, Caesar, and
dialog: the Council is assembled,
text: Outside, in @ long interior corridor, two armed, black-uniformed
text: Gorilla GUARDS spring to attention and salute as Caesar regally
dialog: 3.
text: emerges, followed by Macdonald. The Group moves off through
text: a MONTAGE of interior corridors. Minor Ape Officials, encountered
text: en route, give place with that slight inclination of the head
text: which serves for a royal bow in England. The few Human Workers
text: back away more obsequiously and bow lower. During this, we
speaker_heading: SUPER:
speaker_heading: MAIN CREDITS
text: And as CREDITS END, we reach great double-doors on which
text: Macdonald ceremonially knocks, Over the doors opening, CUT TO:
text: REVERSE LONG SHOT (from inside the Council Cnamber) of doors
text: flung open by huran SERVAKTS,
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Pray silence for Caesar!
text: He gives place, as Caesar enters and the Councilors rise from
text: either side of a long table. They are:
text: - 3 CHIMPANZEES led ty PAN* who is young, intellectual
text: and idealistic. The speed of his talk reflects the
dialog: speed of his mind; and his mind is all peace between
dialog: Apes and humans,
text: ~ 3 GORILLAS led by ALDO, who is early-middle-aged,
text: aggressive, militeristic, hates Humans and would like
dialog: them exterminated - if necessary by war.
text: - 2 ORANGUTANS led by ZENO, who is the elderly apostle of
text: science and reason. It takes him longer than the others
dialog: 
dialog: * Tha endoantifie nare for the species Chimpanzee.
dialog: 4,
dialog: to form a conclusion; but the conclusion, once reached,
dialog: is always more practical than Pants and more logical
dialog: than Aldots.
text: The Orangutans are a minority faction, but their two votes in
dialog: Council can be decisive in the event of a deadlock between the
text: three Chimpanzees and three Gorillas. We must watch Zeno.
text: At the picture's end, he will become the Lawgiver retrospectively
text: referred to in "PLANET". In the SCREENPLAY we shall more fully
text: establish the character and viewpoint of each faction-leader
text: during the brief debate that follows Caesar's opening statement.
text: Meanwhile, all Councilors resume their seats for:
speaker_heading: CAESAR
text: Fellow Chimpanzees, Gorillas and
dialog: Orangutans! On this thirteenth
dialog: annjversary of the Night of the Fires,
dialog: I have (as is our annual custom)
text: assembled and collated reports from
dialog: all territories on the state of Ape
dialog: Supreracy; and I now announce with
dialog: pride that ninety percent of Mankind
text: is under Ape domination and control,
text: A growl of approval, as the Gorillas' hairy hands slap the
text: tabletop. Macdonald remains impassive.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
text: There are still isolated pockets of
dialog: human resistance in the north = but
dialog: I stress that they are isolated and
dialog: therefore constitute no serious threat
dialog: provided that they remain scattered,
dialog: until we have rounded them up and
dialog: disarmed them.
text: Macdonald just perceptibly sighs.
dialog: 5.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (looking at him)
dialog: Disarmament of their minor weapons
dialog: continues. Disarmament of their
dialog: major weapons appears complete. We
dialog: shall use the former only for our
dialog: own defence ~- and the latter will
dialog: never be reactivated,
dialog: (to Councilors)
dialog: The world may breathe again. It
dialog: cannot now be destroyed by those who
dialog: walk upon it, Thirteen years after
dialog: the Night of the Fires, we stand upon
text: the brink of an Era of Peace.
text: Only the Gorillas take no part in applause which is punctuated
text: by murmurs of "Peace!" from the rest. Then, softly but audibly:
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: And goodwill, Caesar?
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: Towards whom?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Towards Men.
text: A pinedrop silence, broken by Aldo, who spits.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: You have our goodwill, provided you
dialog: keep our laws.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (snorting)
dialog: What more do you want? A seat on
dialog: our Council?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Yes,
text: Another silence, Then, successively, Aldo, GORILIA 1 and
text: GORILLA 2 laugh... and laugh.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: I have seen to it that we have served
dialog: you quietly, faithfully and efficently
dialog: for more than a decade, We have put
dialog: not only our energies at your disposal
dialog: but our knowledge. God gave you brains.
dialog: We have given you minds. You still need
dialog: us. Yet we have no representation on
dialog: your Council,
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: Because it is our Council.
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: (rising)
dialog: It is not our Council but the Community's,
dialog: And I do not see why Humans, who share
dialog: this Community in however humble and
dialog: subordinate a capacity, should not derand
dialog: at least one seat on ~
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: (rising)
dialog: Demand or deserve?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: I have said that we have served you
dialog: peacefully for more than ~
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: (sardonic)
dialog: Ten years! Can ten years of good
dialog: behavior expiate ten thousand years of
dialog: bad? What use is peace in the south,
dialog: while there are still rebels in the
dialog: north? Come to us again, when no Human
text: has killed either an Ape or another
dialog: Huran for one hundred years -
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: And we have all been exterminated -
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (with relish)
dialog: Hal
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: - because we are no longer of use to
dialog: you -
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (gently, but with
dialog: authority)
dialog: Macdonald, the fact that you saved ny
dialog: life twice on the Night of the Fires does
dialog: not entitle you to address this Council
dialog: or to formulate policy. You, too, are
dialog: & servant. What sets you above your
dialog: fellows is that you are mine,
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: And I hope you will remain so.
text: BOOM! The audience may jump at the sound of 0,S. cannon-fire,
text: but not those inside the Council Chamber, who have been expecting
text: it, Macdonald, deferential again, looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Your subjects await you, Caesar.
text: As all rise, we CUT TO:
text: BOOM! In the courtyard outside, & cannon (operated by Gorillas)
text: fires a second "royal" salute to cheers and cries of:
speaker_heading: MASSED APES
dialog: Hail, Caesar! Hail, Caesar! ad lib.
dialog: cur TO:
dialog: The “robing room"
text: where Caesar is being groomed and invested in
text: @ resplendently green ceremonial cloak by his VALET, while the
text: sound of the firing and crowd-voices continues outside. We
speaker_heading: PAN OFF him to:
text: LISA (the female Chimpanzee from "CONQUEST") being similarly
text: roved and groomed by two human MAIDS in blue servant-costumes.
text: As a Maid tightens Lisa's beit, Lisa (to both Maids! consternation)
dialog: 8.
text: gives an involuntarily little gasp of pain but follows it
text: instantly with a smile of reassurance, pats her own belly and
text: whispers something in the Maid's ear.
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: Oh, Matam I'm so glad.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Come, Lisa, The citizens are
dialog: waiting.
text: They go out and emerge into:
text: The courtvard - followed at a discreet distance by Macdonald,
text: Here a EODYGUARD of six Gorillas salute and escort them through
text: the parted Ape Crowd into:
text: Modern City's Civie Center. Pretty much the same as it was in
text: "Conouest" except for the one stupefying change: the Master-
text: Servant situation has been completely reversed. Everywhere
text: the Apes are now the masters and mistresses ~ Gorillas in
text: black, Chimps in Green, Orangutans in orange-brown = and the
text: Humans (males in red, ferales in blue) are now the slaves.
text: At Caesar's passing, the Male Apes bow and the Females (sore
text: with difficulty) bob curtseys. The Humans obseouiously give
text: place to him and his entourage (or are non-violently chivvied
text: into doing so by the Gorillas) as the tour of inspection
text: proceeds and reveals how weirdly the tables have been turned
dialog: since the end of "Conquest",
text: Everywhere are yellow flags and posters of Caesar's
text: head backed by the symbolically blood-red flames of
text: the Night of the Fires. A triumphal banner across
text: the royal route proclaims: "HAIL, CAESARI”
text: In a greengrocer's shop window, replete with fruit and
text: vegetables, a human ARTIST is bedecking effigies of
text: Caesar and Lisa with fresh flowers,
text: A P.A, speaker bawls: "Citizens of Ape City! Caesar
dialog: is amongst you and commands that you show him neither
dialog: ceremony nor homage on this festal day that celebrates
dialog: thirteen years of Ape Freedom,"
speaker_heading: cuT TO;
text: Chimpanzee ANNOUNCER, continuing in studio: "Let there
dialog: be no formalities. But go your ways in peace."
text: Gorilla POLICEMAN surreptitiously chivvying one of
text: half-a-dozen human SWEEPERS who have been cleaning
dialog: up the entry into:
text: The Piazza, where we INTERCUT Caesar and Lisa with
dialog: P,0.V. shots:
text: At the outdoor cafe, seated Apes are being served by
text: Humans with bananas, oranges, grapes and raisins which
text: they eat with attempted refinement. A Chimp calls
text: “Waiter!", A Gorilla (less articulate) thumps the
text: table, and a human WAITER comes obsequiously running.
dialog: 10,
text: - In a playground a group of Ape CHILDREN are sliding down
text: chutes, sitting on see-saws and swinging on swings under
text: the supervision of a female Human Teacher, (LINDY). At
dialog: Caesar's approach:
speaker_heading: LINDY
dialog: Now what shall we play, children?
dialog: Follow My Leader or Blind Ape's Buff?
speaker_heading: CHILDREN
dialog: (in dutiful unanimity)
dialog: Follow My Leader!
text: Caesar is delighted. His Group descends into:
text: - A pedestrian subway, where we pass doors to three
dialog: restrooms respectively labeled "Ladies", "Gentlemen"
dialog: «+ + » and "Humans", It is from the last of these that
text: there emerges a human STRANGER, who blocks the Group's
text: progress: a tall, lean John Carradine type with
text: fanatical blue eyes and an authority enhanced by his
text: clothes which are of the trim but travel-stained sort
dialog: that Hurans used once to wear.
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: {ironic smile)
dialog: Hail, Caesar,
text: Macdonald hastily interposes himself between the Stranger and
text: an angry Caesar flanked by his angrier Bodyguard,
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: By what right are you not in servant's
dialog: uniform?
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: By the right of humans to dress as
dialog: they please.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (quietiy)
dialog: Humans have no rights except those
text: conferred on them by Apes.
dialog: (to Guard-Commander)
dialog: Arrest him.
text: As the Guard moves forward:
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: Wait!
text: The monosyllable has the stopping force of a .45 bullet.
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: If you harm one hair of my head,
dialog: this City will be destroyed.
text: In the silence, Lisa touches her belly, whimpers and hides her
text: eyes. But Caesar suddenly relaxes and rolls his eyes skyward
text: in mock resignation.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Another lunatic!
dialog: (to the Guard Commander)
text: Detach two Gorillas to escort him to
dialog: General Aldo's Headquarters for
dialog: interrogation. Then report to me.
text: Guard Commander clicks to obedient attention,
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: And Caesar?
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Yes, Macdonald,
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: May I respectfully suggest that he be
dialog: well-treated until we're sure?
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Of what, Macdonald?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Of his lunacy.
dialog: 12.
text: Caesar frowns and turns to Guard Commander.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: See to it.
dialog: (to Macdonald)
dialog: Come. We're wasting time.
text: The Escort moves off in one direction; the Group exits subway
text: in the other. Emerging, they pass:
text: A Barber's Shop, to which we CLOSE as Group exits shot. Human
text: hands remove a hot towel from the face of . .. an Ape. He is
text: having his shoes shined by a little BLACK BOY, to whom he tosses:
text: INSERT: A silver dollar-sized coin on the Boy's black palm,
text: It has Caesar's profiled image and is circumscribed "CAESAR 1
scene_heading: REX IMPFRATOR SIMIORUM*," From the image of Caesar's head:
scene_heading: QUICK LAP DISSOLVE To:
text: The real Caesar's profile, frowning in the doorway (opened by
text: Macdonald) of Aldo's office, as we slow PULL BACK during
text: dialogue to include Stranger (back turned, between Guards)
text: addressing Aldo, In the corner sits a human CLERK, punching a
dialog: shorthand-typewriter.
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: For the last time, I will speak
dialog: before no one but Caesar,
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Caesar is here,
text: He sits, as Stranger whips round into confrontation,
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: What is your name?
dialog: Silence,
dialog: Silence,
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: You took it away and gave me a number.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: What number?
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: (scornfully)
dialog: Do you expect me to remember it?
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: Where have you come from?
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: The North.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: What territory?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: For your own sake, please tell us.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: STRANGER
text: A messenger.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Sent by. . .?
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: My master.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (patiently)
dialog: Has he a name?
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: We call him Nimrod...
text: Dialogue unexpectedly continues uninterrupted over a visual:
scene_heading: SHOCK CUT TO:
dialog: 4,
text: NIMROD, seated et a portable wooden table in a tattered tent
text: through which the north wind flaps and whines. A grizzied
text: giant by John Wayne out cf Royal Dano, he wears the battered
text: cap of a former U.S. Army General and listens (with two young
text: "AIDES") to a radio-speaker on the tabletop.
speaker_heading: STRANGER'S VOICE
dialog: (continuing, through speaker)
dialog: * » « because he was, and is, a mighty
dialog: hunter.
speaker_heading: CAESAR'S VOICE
dialog: And what is his message?
text: Through the tent flap we focus briefly on a distand, oldetype
text: bomber plane being serviced by humans, and:
scene_heading: CUT BACK TO:
dialog: Aldo's Headquarters.
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: "Set our people free,"
text: An amused silence.
speaker_heading: : CAESAR
dialog: No,
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: Or else -
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (stung to anger)
dialog: Did you set us free, when we were
dialog: your slaves? There can be no "or else",
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: (quietly}
dialog: Caesar, there can, We have a plane
dialog: and we have a bomb,
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: {softiy)
dialog: Christ,
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: A bomb that could reduce this city -
dialog: which is the Capital of your Empire -
text: to rubble.
speaker_heading: cuT TO:
text: The North. PULLING BACK from the exterior shot of bomb ready
text: for loading onto a plane ready for fuelling. NIMROD and AIDES
text: listening intently to the radio-speaker's crackling silence.
speaker_heading: AIDE 1
dialog: That shook ‘em.
speaker_heading: AIDE 2
dialog: Now they'll turn the heat on.
speaker_heading: CAESAR'S VOICE
dialog: (through speaker)
dialog: Where is this Nimrod?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: _Aldots Headquarters,
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: I have told you. In the North.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: Where in the North?
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (banging fist on table)
dialog: Where? Where? Where?
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: We can make you talk.
speaker_heading: STRANGER
dialog: I repeat: if you harm one hair of
dialog: my head, your City will be destroyed.
dialog: 16,
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Apes have ways of hutring without
dialog: harming. Brutus!
text: One of the Gorilla Guards clicks to attention.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Show him,
text: BRUTUS (from behind) thrusts his hands under the Stranger's arms,
text: locks fingers across the Stranger's chest, and with sundry expert
text: movements of the thumbs, begins to apply a pressure which
text: (though it never wipes the scornful smile off the Stranger's
text: face) drenches him with the sweat of appalling pain. We INTERCUT
text: the faces of the onlookers - starting on the Clerk and ending
text: on Macdonald, who winces at the sudden, sickening crunch of
text: what seem to be breaking bones. Caesar and Aldo leap simultaneously
text: to their feet.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: You fat-knuckled idiot! You've
text: broken his ribs.
text: But Brutus is feeling the Stranger's chest under his shirt, and
text: shaking his head,
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: No. . eno.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: Then what have you broken?
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: This.
dialog: 17.
text: And from under the shirt he extracts a small, smashed, plastic
text: microphone attached to a miniature transmitter concealed in
text: the shirt's inner pocket.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (indicating Stranger
dialog: to Guard 2
dialog: Shoot him,
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Caesar - |
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: The damage is done. We have been
dialog: heard. Our City is infected, Cleanse
dialog: itl
text: As Guerd 2's gun fires and blood spreads across the shirt of the
text: still-smiling Stranger:
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: The North, Nimrod and "Aides" (the two latter are the pilots
dialog: who will undertake the mission) calculate that the time required
text: for fuelling the plane, installing the bomb and reaching the
dialog: target will be X hours, We the audience, therefore know that
dialog: there is.a dangerously short time-limit for the completion of:
text: Caesar's countermeasures. These are not unsubtle, Modern
dialog: City is of course equipped with deep shelters which, when
dialog: first constructed, were designed to accommodate the Human
dialog: population only. In the event of a nuclear attack, Apes would
dialog: have been left to fend for themselves, The situation must
text: now be reversed, though the reversal is tempered with a modicum
text: of mercy. Caesar breaks into the holiday celebrations with a
dialog: 18.
text: dramatic Proclamation of Emergency on P,A, and TV. The threat
dialog: (he says) may be a hoax but the Council are taking no risks,
dialog: Deep shelters shall, for the moment, immediately be occupied
dialog: by Apes only.
dialog: Thereafter (says Caesar) whatever shelter space remains
dialog: available shall be allocated to Humans selected on a priority
dialog: basis for their potential usefulness to Ape Society. Humans
dialog: are asked to stand by public TV screens till those selected
dialog: have been surmoned (by their personal numbers) to fill
dialog: vacancies in designated shelters. Those not selected must find
text: what shelter they can in subways and cellars.
text: Throughout Caesar's announcement we INTERCUT its panic-effect
text: on the holiday-making populace - in the restaurant, where
text: half-eaten meals are left unfinished; in the playground, where
dialog: the Ape Children don't want to be parted from their Human
dialog: Teacher, Lindy; and in the Barber's Shop etc., etc.
text: At length the Apes are gone - leaving the Civic Center scattered
text: with holiday-litter and bewildered Humans. An elderly MALE,
text: as though in a trance, begins automatically to sweep the litter
text: from the sidewalks, Like a Zombie.
text: Caesar exits a conference with his Councilors (all are united
text: in adversity) and invites Macdonald to share the sanctuary
dialog: of his V,I.P, shelter, To Caesar's distress, Macdonald at
dialog: first refuses, He prefers to stay (and if need be die) with
text: his own people, Caesar gently argues, ending:
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Macdonald, it is wrong for a ruler
dialog: to be in his servant's debt. You
dialog: saved my life twice. I command you
dialog: to allow me to save yours.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: And if I refuse?
text: Caesar smiles and puts an arm on Macdonald's shoulder.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: I'll have you shot.
text: Macdonald smiles, too .. . and gives in. They have reached:
text: The "Robing Room", where Lisa (alone) pleads to be allowed to
text: take her two huran maids, MARY and ANNA, into the shelter.
text: Reluctantly, Caesar feels compelled to restrict her to one.
dialog: Humans selected for shelter will chiefly be those who can
dialog: serve not individuals but the State, Poor Lisa! She will have
dialog: to make a difficult choice,
text: In the North, the bomb is about to be installed in the plane
dialog: and we learn something that Nimrod and the two Pilots have
text: known all along; that this is possibly a suicide mission with
text: a conceivable point of no return, Nimrod has gambled all but
dialog: & small reserve-percentage of his precious fuel on a death-blow
text: to Caesar's capital city. The Pilots have enough fuel to
dialog: reach the target area, drop the bomb and (with luck and good
text: weather) fly clear of the holocaust before effecting a forced
text: landing on their way home to the North,
dialog: 20,
text: NOTE; In the above scene we visvally (and unassertively)
text: establish that Nimrod's campsite includes a car
text: graveyard containing veteran vehicles of the 1970's
text: and 1980's, A handful of humans are working (without
dialog: special urgency) to restore or service these,
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Exterior shots of Apes descending into various shelters - many
text: clutching suitcases and bags of food, some with (Ape) children.
text: One heavily-guarded shelter is also the City Arsenal, filled
text: with boxes of ammunition and crates of small arms. We end on
text: V.I.P, shelter with Caesar, Lisa, Pan, Aldo, Zeno, other
text: Councilors and Aides, Macdonald and the valet, George. Outside,
text: the two human maids, Anna and Mary, approach the shelter with
text: confidence. Lisa cannot bear to watch the heart-rending scene
text: as Anna is given access and Mary is excluded.
text: In the North, the bomb is installed in the plane.
text: In the Civic Center the lower-calibre hurans. (such as sweepers,
text: cleaners, laborers} cluster round an outdoor TV screen, waiting,
dialog: praying that their names may be called. Indoors, the higher-
text: calibre technicians, teachers, medics etc. watch their own TY
text: sets in srall, sparsely furnished roots and shared apartments,
text: The sets are switched on, but the screens stay silent and black,
dialog: until:
text: A VOICE booms out over Civie Center:
dialog: "Attention all Humansi"
text: The screen brightens to reveal a (Chimpanzee).
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER
dialog: (as we INTERCUT listeners)
dialog: The following will report immediately
text: to Shelter 9 at the intersection of
dialog: Caesar Avenue and Armando Street.*
dialog: They will wear their identity discs
dialog: and carry no baggage except such
text: portable tools and devices as are
dialog: vital to the useful prosecution of
dialog: their profession or their trade.
dialog: Their mates (whether male or female)
dialog: will not be admitted to the shelter;
dialog: and no human child shall be released
dialog: from the School Pound, where second-
dialog: class shelter is available in the
dialog: cellars,
text: Now, as the Announcer (seen on various screens) calls each name
dialog: and number - preceded by an initial letter denoting his or
text: her calibre - we CUT or PAN to the name's owner. Thus, on a
text: small indoor screen:
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER
text: A34577 Clement, veterinary surgeon.
text: We PAN off TV screen to Clem, a handsome young vet in his
text: surgery. With a sigh of relief, he begins methodically to put
text: instruments and drugs into his medical bag.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Civic Center's big screen,
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER
dialog: C21632 Bradford, carpenter,
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 
text: * For Ape-buffs. Armando, Caesar's human foster-father, was
text: killed for trying to help Caesar in “CONQUEST",
dialog: 22,
text: Brad, in his burly mid-30's, looking at screen. He already
text: carries his small tools in his belt and his larger ones ina
text: bag. He moves off, to the undisauised envy of the Crowd,
dialog: There could be trouble brewing.
text: We continue to CROSS-CUT this “call-up" of the Hurans in Modern
text: City with the progress of the plane's preparation in the North;
dialog: and it may be assumed that, whenever we CUT to the North, further
dialog: names are being called in the South - names, whose owners we
dialog: shall only meet for the first time in the picture's second
text: half, Meanwhile, after the calling up of (say) an architect
dialog: and an engineer, we:
speaker_heading: cuT TO:
text: Large indoor wall screen.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER
text: B135984 Melinda, schoolteacher.
text: We PULL PACK to Lindy alone and frightened in her schoolroom,
text: seated at a high desk in front of blackboard scribbled with
dialog: simple surs and the quotation "We must love one another or
text: die."* She begins to collect colored crayons, pens, pencils,
dialog: drawing pads, exercise books etc.
dialog: cur TO:
text: Small screen in shared apartment.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER
dialog: Al49760 Alexander, animal psychiatrist.
speaker_heading: OOo ne
speaker_heading: * WOH, Auden
dialog: 23.
text: We PULL BACK to two men in a room whose shelves jointly
dialog: accommodate the books of the psychiatrist (LEX) and the
text: technical parphernalia of the radio-ham (FRANK). Lex is
text: thin, bespectacled and frail. Frank - dark, saturnine and
dialog: compact, emanates the same dynamic power as the man we called
dialog: "The Stranger".
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: (sincerely)
dialog: I'm sorry, Frank.
text: But Frank is brooding and doesn't answer. Lex surveys his books,
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: I guess my . . . baggage is all
dialog: in my head. I'll just take soap
text: and a toothbrush,
dialog: (fingering his weak chin)
dialog: And maybe grow a beard at last.
text: His fingers have touched the cord of his identity-dise, which
text: he pulls out from under his shirt. And Frank stares at it.
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: Mustn't lose this.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You might as well,
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: Might as well what?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Lose it, Lex.
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: (alarmed)
dialog: Frank, what dtyou want?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I want to survive, Lex.
dialog: a4,
text: He snatches at the disc and pulls it so that the cord bites
text: into the back of Lex's neck.
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: (resisting)
dialog: Frank, you can't get away with it,
dialog: You're not a psychiatrist. You're a
dialog: radio technician - |
text: Frank begins to twist the disc so that the cord twists, too.
text: Just before Lex is (inevitably) strangled, we:
speaker_heading: cuT TO:
text: Shots of low-calibre unselected Humans drifting, dazed and
text: terrified, about the darkening streets. They begin to coalesce
dialog: into a Mob.
text: Selected Humans queuing to go down into Shelter 9. Their
text: identity-discs are checked against a typed list at the head
text: of the descending stone stairway, Lindy approaches checkpoint,
text: followed by Frank,
dialog: B135984 Me lindas schoolteacher.
speaker_heading: GORILLA GUARD
dialog: Pass.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: A149760 Alexander, animal psychiatrist.
text: After a sufficient pause to provide tension:
speaker_heading: GORILLA GUARD
dialog: Pass.
text: A step below Frank, Lindy slightly stumbles. He grabs her
text: elbow to prevent a fall.
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: LINDY
dialog: Thank you, Mr. . . Alexander.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: Call me Lex,
text: More Humans at the end of the queue go down, down, down, down. .
text: And in the North, the two Pilot-Aides go up, up, up into the
dialog: plane,
text: Dusk. The unselected Mob marches on a Bank. There'll be
dialog: vaults, there, and maybe money for later - if there is a
text: "later". They are smashing the windows with broom handles,
text: when the last Ape Police Squad to patrol the City opens fire.
text: A pitched battle ensues between a Squad with firearms and a
text: Mob (superior in numbers) armed only with brooms, picks, spades,
text: hammers etc. Inevitably many Humans are massacred; but some
text: climb through the broken glass and vanish into the Bank, A
text: siren wails, summoning all Ape personnel back into the shelters,
text: The Police Squad recedes. Silence broken by:
text: Exterior, The plane's four great jet engines suddenly roar
text: into earsplitting life. We PULL BACK to include Nimrod and his
text: "Army" assembled to bid the revving-up plane farewell.
text: Shots of shelter doors sliding shut. Night is falling on
dialog: Modern City.
text: With a thunderous roar the plane takes off and heads south
text: into the deepening dusk.
dialog: 26.
text: Interior of plane. Tense technical dialogue between the
text: two (doomed?) Pilots. The fuel and altimeter dials of the
text: veteran plane are established. Its condition is less than
dialog: perfect.
text: The red and yellow flags and poster-portraits of Caesar flutter
text: over darkening streets deserted and empty except outside the
text: Bank, where wounded Human Survivors of the massacre still
text: faintly moan and stir. From a poster-portrait we:
speaker_heading: cuT TO:
text: Caesar, deep underground with his entourage, planning for an
text: enigmatic future. We end on:
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: What more can we do?
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: We can wait,
text: Interior of plane, buffeted by headwinds. The fuel dial is
text: falling. To evade turbulence, Pilot 1 drops to the minimum
text: altitude consistent with clearing the bomb's explosion, and
text: peers from the cockpit into. . .black night.
text: Impressive GROUND-SHOT of Modern City by night. Streetlamps
text: have lit automatically and some windows are lit, though empty.
text: From his shelter, Caesar orders a General Blackout,
text: INSERT: A hairy Orangutan hand throws a switch {or switches)
text: in subterranean power house.
dialog: 27.
text: FULL SHOT: City. All the lights go out. And very, very
text: gradually in the long, momentous silence, we hear the drone of
text: the approaching plane. As it loudens, one of the engines
text: begins to stutter.
text: The drone and the stutter can just (but only just) be heard by
text: an elderly female human SUPERVISOR in the cellars of the School
text: Pound, where she sits surrounded by scared human CHILDREN,
text: She takes a pectoral cross from its concealment in her bosom and
text: holds it towards the children.
speaker_heading: SUPERVISOR
dialog: Children, this is called the cross of
text: Christ, who is still said secretly by
dialog: many of us to be the Son of God. Let
dialog: us pray for our safety to Him and to
dialog: His Father. Repeat after me:
dialog: Our Father...
speaker_heading: CHILDREN
dialog: Our Father...
speaker_heading: SUPERVISOR
dialog: Which art in heaven...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: Interior of plane,
speaker_heading: PILOT 1
dialog: We're losing height, It's now or
dialog: never.
speaker_heading: PILOT 2
dialog: Now.
text: We CLOSE to his hand activating the vbomb's release, And PILOT 1
text: puts plane into a screaming steep turn, as we:
scene_heading: CUT DOWN TO:
dialog: 28,
text: The City. No sound of the detonation. But night slowly
text: brightens into day, and the day slowly dazzles. We catch the
text: classic Hiroshima glimpse of a stray HUMAN backed against a
text: stone wall. ‘Then his body vanishes and only his silhouette
text: remains burnt into the wall... which splits, The screen
text: bleaches to a white, blinding incandescence; and the thunder
text: of crashing masonry deafens us, as the now invisible City
dialog: founders,
dialog: Only later shall we learn what happened to the plane.
speaker_heading: END OF PART I
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: PART TWO
scene_heading: TIME-DISSOLVE TO:
text: INT. V.I.P. shelter in almost total darkness, Two Human SHAPES
text: sit on either side of a table against the concrete back wall,
text: spooning something out of a can into their mouths,
speaker_heading: SHAPE 1
dialog: Wetre lucky they never ate meat,
speaker_heading: SHAPE 2
dialog: (lighter voice)
dialog: We're lucky they left orange peel.
dialog: Wetre lucky the shelter was open,
speaker_heading: SHAPE 1
dialog: Okay. So we're lucky .. . period,
speaker_heading: SHAPE 2
dialog: (shivering suddenly)
dialog: I feel it's evening.
speaker_heading: SHAPE 1
dialog: What day?
speaker_heading: SHAPE 2
dialog: What month... ?
speaker_heading: SHAPE 1
dialog: Would you like a minute or two of
dialog: light?
speaker_heading: SHAPE 2
dialog: We've been very economical.
text: Shape 1 throws a switch on the wall above the table, and light
text: floods the abandoned Ape shelter.
speaker_heading: SHAPE 2
dialog: That's better.
dialog: It isn't better - for us. Both Humans are hairless as albinos;
text: and radiation has stripped their faces' skin, revealing the
dialog: 30.
text: hideously complex ganglia of veins, sinews and nerve ends
dialog: beneath, We are looking at two ancestors of the "evolved"
text: Mutant Colony which was later to found a subterranean
dialog: civilization in "APES 2",
speaker_heading: SHAPE 1
dialog: I'd like to have seen our child
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: SHAPE 2
dialog: (affectionately)
dialog: We'll have others,
text: It dawns on us that Shape 2 must be female. As the grotesque
text: pair kiss across the table, we:
scene_heading: QUICK TIME-DISSCLYE TC:
text: Shots of small, bewildered huran bands - shocked, stricken and
text: in tatters, wandering aimlessly in a dazed effort to live off
text: the scorched earth, over which a brown fog hangs like @ pall.
text: One such band fights for possession of a withered bush which
text: bears neither leaves nor berries. Another group voraciously
text: falls on and dismembers the brittle skeleton of a man -
text: separately to suck and chew the dry, fleshless bones.*
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: A child's grave, scooped and heaped from the grey aust. Over
text: this, the voice of the Children's supervisor:
scene_heading: ("MOTHER") AGNES
dialog: Forasmuch as it hath pleased Almighty
dialog: God of his great mercy...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 
dialog: * If the censor demurs (but why should he?) a cow's skeleton
dialog: would be second best.
dialog: 31.
text: FULL SHOT: Agnes and a group of human Children, all in wind-
text: blown tatters by the wind-blown grave,
speaker_heading: AGNES
dialog: + « «. to take unto himself the soul
dialog: of our dear... little .. . brother
dialog: here departed, we therefore commit his
dialog: body to the ground; earth to earth,
dialog: ashes to ashes...
dialog: {intercutting grave)
dialog: - « + Gust to dust; in sure and certain
dialog: hope of the Resurrection to eternal
dialog: life ,..
text: (throwing her pectoral
dialog: eross on to the grave)
dialog: .« . « through our Lord Jesus Christ
dialog: Matilda what the hell d'you think
dialog: you're doing? Come Back at once}
dialog: CUT TO;
text: MEDIUM LONG SHOT: MATILDA, a little black girl.
speaker_heading: . MATILDA
dialog: Mother Agnes, I've found something.
speaker_heading: AGNES
dialog: (entering foreground)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MATILDA
dialog: Grass.
text: With a cry of hope, the entire Group races toward Matilda, We
text: ANGLE DOWN on the wind blowing dust over the pectoral cross on
dialog: the grave, and:
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: MONTAGE with triumphal MUSIC: the trek to greener pastures,
text: where the air is clean, and the odd dove or rabbit makes
dialog: the practical Agnes long for a gun. Even this is to be
text: vouchsafed her, as we END MONTAGE on:
dialog: 32,
text: Group meeting up with the few ragged but cheerful survivors
text: of the "Mob" who took refuge in the Bank. Under the leadership
text: of an amiable giant called Jud, they (like the Children) are
text: heading north, The trek resumes and they come within sight
text: of a screen of distant trees. And suddenly a little BOY cuts
text: through the chatter;
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Listen!
text: The chatter stops.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Listen to that bird.
text: Distantly from behind the trees, we hear: "Pink! Pink! Pink!"
text: As the sound continues:
speaker_heading: JuD
dialog: (himself a laborer)
dialog: That ain't no bird. That's a
text: pick - on stone.
speaker_heading: AGNES
dialog: Glory be to God, there are more
dialog: of ust
text: The Men begin to break into a run, which puts up a@ rabbit in
dialog: the scrub.
speaker_heading: JUD
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Get him, Danny!
dialog: Any curiosity we may feel about the rabbit's fate is wiped
text: from our minds by what instantly follows: the cough of an
text: answering rifle-bullet from behind the trees. It knocks the
text: gun out of Danny's hand.
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: JUD
dialog: (to Group)
dialog: Down, all of youl
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: CLOSER SHOT: the screen of trees. In the silence we SLOW
text: 200M to a gunemuzzle pointing through the leaves of an upper
dialog: bough, and hear:
speaker_heading: VOICE 1
dialog: (from below; dubiously)
dialog: The orders are not to fire...
speaker_heading: VOICE 2
dialog: (vehind leaves)
dialog: « + « unless they fire first.
dialog: They did. —
text: The gun-barrel dips forward to reveal the hand of the firer
text: reloading. It is the hand of a gorilla, Over this, much nearer
dialog: than before: “Pink! Pink! Pinki"
speaker_heading: VOICE 2
dialog: Alert the outpost,
scene_heading: CUT BACK TO:
text: Human Group, anxiously conferring. Agnes and her brood are
text: bustled into cover in rear of the Men who fan out in a close
text: sericircle + some armed and ready to fire.
speaker_heading: CHILD
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: Look I
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: P.O.V. LONG SHOT: A single Gorilla with a rifle stands in
text: front of the distant screen of trees.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: CHILD
dialog: A gorililat
speaker_heading: AGNES
dialog: Mother of God...
text: One of the Men fires.
text: MEDIUM SHOT: Gorilla, ducking a narrow miss, fires back.
text: CLOSE SHOT: The Man who fired is killed.
text: MEDIUM SHOT: The prone Gorilla's right arm signals
dialog: “Advancel", And we ZOOM BACK to:
text: FULL SHOT: The Gorilla Cavalry breaks cover through the screen
text: of trees, Riding bareback (as Caesar, a former circus rider,
text: must have taught them) they gallop in a wide semicircle which
text: closes in a pincer-movement to outflank and surround the
text: huddled Hurans, who are netted and rounded up like cattle into
text: ene (or two) horse-drawn cages that have followed the attacking
dialog: squadron,
text: But one Danny escapes; and as the carts rumble out of shot, we
text: stay with him crouching, crawling and snaking, finally, to the
text: shelter of a cave-mouth, into whose half darkness we follow him,
text: Alrost instantly he hears steps and voices approaching from
text: deeper in the cave. He flattens hirself into concealrent
text: behind a rocky buttress.
speaker_heading: VOICE 1
dialog: I have to save my batteries. Where's
dialog: your nearest operational transmitter?
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: VOICE 2
dialog: About ea mile'ts walk down the
dialog: subway.
speaker_heading: VOICE 1
dialog: Then radio to Nimrod that I'm
text: established in the royal circle.
dialog: Caesar gets headaches.* I've
dialog: told him they're psychological and
dialog: he believes me.
text: Into the brighter light of the cave-mouth emerges .. . Frank,
dialog: the bogus animal-psychiatrist, whom we shall hereafter call
text: by his assumed name of "Lex",
speaker_heading: "TEX"
dialog: (smug smile)
dialog: He thinks I can cure them.
text: He turns back to wave good-bye to the owner of Voice 2 (now
text: dimly discernible in the shadows) and sees Danny flattened
text: against the buttress.
speaker_heading: STEX uu
dialog: You've got a visitor.
text: The owner of Voice 2 walks into the light. He is the third
text: MUTANT we have seen so far and, despite his hideously marred
text: face, has a certain authority. We hear "LEX" leaving, Then:
speaker_heading: MUTANT 3
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: CAMPBELL
text: B64139 Campbell.
speaker_heading: MUTANT 3
dialog: What is your trade or profession?
dialog: 
dialog: * We can plant these in Part One.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Gunsmith,
speaker_heading: MUTANT 3
dialog: (a lipless smile)
dialog: We have room for you, Come down,
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Escorted by Gorilla cavalry, the two carts break through the
text: leafy screen into:
text: The new Ape City under process of construction. The effect
dialog: should be inspiring, for Apes and their selected Human Experts
text: are working together energetically and harmoniously ~ though
text: the Hurrans address even the humblest Ape-leborer as "Sir".
text: From the P,O.V. of the Hurans in the certs, CAMERA ROVES:
text: - Ape-wielded picks striking on stones as cave-like
text: dwellings are scooped out of rock under the supervisior
text: ef a Human ARCHITECT who, from time to time, unrolls
dialog: paper-plans and deferentially issues further suggestions
text: to the workers.
text: - The Arena (seen in APES 2) now almost finished, as
text: Apes raise and anchor a tall flagpole at its center
text: beside which others are erecting a dais,
text: - Impressionistic glimpses of Apes being taught under
dialog: Human supervision to cultivate the land - e.g. seed
text: sowing, vine growing, digging or even ploughing.
dialog: (The choice of images will be guided by our budget
dialog: but must convey that, in terms of food, the community
dialog: is becoming self-sufficient.)
dialog: 37.
dialog: ~ Settled in a country where wildlife has not been
text: exterminated, the inhabitants have access to furs,
text: fibres, feathers, hides, skins, barks, and simple
text: fabrics which Female Apes can be seen plucking,
text: plaiting, cutting and crudely tailoring in the open
text: Squares. As we pass, we see fruits and vegetables
text: stacked in a free (but rationed) Market, where 2
text: Gorilla Supervisor disposes to each Ape his due.
text: An aduit Orangutan trying to steal an extra orange is
text: summarily whipped.
text: ~- From a shot of the carts entering the double-~geteway
dialog: of a Huran Compound, we:
dialog: cut TO:
text: ‘acdonald opening double-doorway to usher Caesar to the head
text: of the Inner Council table where Aldo, Zeno and Pan await him.
speaker_heading: NOTE:
dialog: What we shall call the "Palace" complex (Council Room,
dialog: Living Room and Bedchamber) demands credibility of
dialog: construction and decor. Let us assume that our Human
dialog: Carpenter (Brad) has supervised the making of chairs,
text: tables and beds. Some of the fabrics have been
dialog: transported from Modern City; others we have just
text: seen being woven. Intermittent sound effects will
text: indicate that construction is not yet complete.
text: Meanwhile, the Inner Council's debate opens. In gist:
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Why did they fire at us?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
text: They didn't, They fired at a rabbit.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (darkly)
dialog: How can you be sure?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: We have the rabbit.
speaker_heading: ALBO
dialog: Then I suggest that they share its
dialog: fate. Rabbits breed. So will they.
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: Caesar has Said again and again
text: that the time for killing is over.
dialog: Let them live and serve the Community
dialog: like their fellows.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (scornfully }
dialog: Pan, the pacifist!
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: General Aldo, your army exists to
dialog: keep the peace - not to break it,
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: And what if they break us?
text: The sound of sawing starts in an adjacent room, and Caesar's
text: hand goes suddenly to his head.
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: (noticing)
dialog: I have a compromise. Let their
dialog: survival depend on their co-operation,
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (head in pain)
dialog: In favor... ?
text: Sawing continues as Zeno raises his hand, followed (after a
dialog: pause) by Pan.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: Does that include the children and
dialog: their supervisor?
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: I move that they be put in charge
text: of the teacher, Lindy.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (outraged)
dialog: You intend to educate them? In
dialog: the same schools as our own young?
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: (soothingly)
dialog: Again, provided they co-operate.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: What child ever did?
text: Now hammering starts in the next room.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Macdonald, can that noise be stopped?
dialog: What are they building?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
text: A cot for what we hope will be Caesar's
dialog: son.
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: (gently)
dialog: They haven't much time.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: My son was born upon the ground.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (with sudden, icy
dialog: fury)
dialog: Your son was not royal. And the
dialog: propriety of a prince's cot is not
dialog: @ matter for debate in council.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: As Caesar pleases.
dialog: Harmer, hammer, hammer!
dialog: ho,
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (both hands to head)
dialog: Where's Lex?
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: I'll find hin,
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: "Lex" returning through Ape City. He meets Macdonald and, just
text: before moving out of shot, they pass:
text: Lindy holding her first unsegregated class for Human anc Ape
text: children, watched by Agnes.
speaker_heading: LINDY
dialog: {to Chimp Girl)
dialog: Myra, count up to ten,
speaker_heading: MYRA
dialog: (with facile mimicry)
dialog: Onetwothreefourfivesixseveneightnineten,
speaker_heading: LINDY
dialog: {holding up fingers)
dialog: And what is one plus three?
text: A long silence. Myra can't do it.
speaker_heading: LINDY
dialog: Anybody?
scene_heading: ALL HUMAN CHILDREN
dialog: (a concerted yell)
speaker_heading: FOURI
text: Not an Ape~child has spoken. Agnes smiles smugly at Lincy.
text: INT. Medical hut in palace grounds. "Lex", Macdonald and Cler,
text: the vet, (whom we shall call Doc) briefly and privately discuss
text: Caesar's condition. Doc suspects a disease endemic among chimps:
dialog: 41,
text: brain-expansion in an unexpandable cranium. But no X-ray apparatus
text: is available to confirm this. Has "Lex" had any success
dialog: psychiatrically? Not much, Some kind of mental censorship is
text: preventing Caesar from talking freely. Doc offers to inject a
text: minimal dose of pentothal to "unbutton” him. As they leave for the
dialog: palace:
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: UNDERGROUND. Mutant 3 guiding Danny, the gunsmith, along a subway
text: to the steady thrum of a generator which may well be the source of
text: dim lighting. They are pausing by a mutant-ranned radio transmitter
text: whose retractable aerial soars through an air vent.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Come in, Nimrod. Come in, Nimrod.
text: A voice, very distorted by static, answers ~ unintelligibly to us
dialog: but not to the operator,
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Frank, alias Alexander, alias Lex,
dialog: reports that he is well established
dialog: under agreed cover in Caesar's
dialog: court-circle and...
text: Mutant 3 and Danny have moved on, as Operator's Voice dwindles and
text: fades.
speaker_heading: MUTANT 3
dialog: I'm taking you to the City Arsenal.
text: Out of the bits and pieces the Apes
dialog: left us, I want to construct a
dialog: rather unusual missile.
dialog: ye,
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: {guarded)
dialog: Will it harm my own kind?
speaker_heading: MUTANT 3
text: Not noticeably.
text: INT. Anteroom to bedchamber, CLOSEUP: Doc's hypodermic needle
text: retracts from a small, red-tagged plastic container and is expelled
text: into Caesar's arm. As we PULL BACK to include a couch and stool:
dialog: Doc
dialog: Caesar, youtll feel drowsy at
text: first. Then relaxed. Relaxed
dialog: enough to talk to...
dialog: (indicating)
dialog: Lex.
text: An interruption. Lisa's human maid, Anna, enters to say that her
text: mistress's labor-pains have started. Caesar only drowsily reacts.
text: Doe quietly puts back the pentothal-container in his dector's bag,
text: from which he now extracts (say) a sphigmometer and a tube of tablets
text: Ke leaves with Anna. And "Lex", seated behind Caesar's drowsy
text: head, is left looking intently into the bag - in which is a second
text: Plastic container identical with the first, except that it is
text: dDiack-tagged.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Only two more quick scenes before the Action starts:
text: 1, INT, Bedchamber, Doc, his ministration over, looks down at
text: Lisa* with a reassurance he does not feel.
dialog: 
dialog: * Though in this outline Lisa's role may appear skeletonic, we
dialog: hope to build her relationship with Caesar into something
text: tender, humorous and touching.
dialog: 43,
dialog: boc
dialog: 'Itil be around, ma'am. Send
dialog: Anna if you need me.'
text: He takes Anna aside into the passage connecting bedchamber with
text: anteroom and tells her that, due probably to the long, arduous trek
text: from Modern City to Ape City, the baby's position is wrong. It's
text: not going to be an easy birth. Suddenly we hear Caesar's tormented
text: voice loudening vehind the anteroom door.
speaker_heading: cuT TO:
text: 2. INT. A dramatic set-piece for Caesar, at long last giving vent
text: to his guilt at having been instrumental in the death of his beloved
text: huran foster-father, Arrando. (His lamentation will also serve to se-
dialog: this picture in the context of its predecessors.) "He loved me,
dialog: and I killed him. There will be no more killing, while I am King.”
text: "Lex" glibly soothes him. Armando died so as not to betray Caesar.
dialog: Had he so betrayed him, the Apes would still be slaves. If
text: Armandots spirit survives, he would be happy at his own suicide's
text: eutcome, We end on Caesar's childlike whimper of dependency that
text: characterised his parting from Armando in "CONQUEST":
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Armando . . . Armando... Armando...
text: A Boow! from the ceremonial cannons - which we may presume to have
text: been horse-drawn and/or manhandled months ago into Ape City.
text: Caesar's personal standard breaks from the flagpole as the royal
text: cortege approaches the dais in full view of the crowded Amphitheatre.
dialog: A,
text: Lisa walks shakily on Caesar's arm, followed by Anna carrying the
text: blanketed baby. Deferentially in the rear come Doc (with his bag)
text: and "Lex" - respectively in attendance on Caesar and Lisa. As they
text: mount the dais, Lisa stumbles slightly ~ and Doc exchanges 2
text: disapproving headshake with "Lex", The Queen should not have deer,
dialog: allowed out so soon.
text: A hush falls, as Caesar takes the baby from Anna's arms. Then,
text: with Lisa by his side, ne holds the child aloft.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: To the Council, to the Senate
dialog: and to the People of this City,
dialog: I present my newborn son...
text: Tremendous cheering.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: And I name him, after my Ape
dialog: father and my human foster-father,
dialog: Cornelius Armando,
text: The cannens boom; and as the cheering peaks, Lisa sways and falls.
text: "Tex" is at Caesar's side, Caesar gives him the baby to hold and
text: crouches in great concern over Lisa, whom Doc ts already attending.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: {frightened eyes
dialog: flickering)
dialog: Pain... pain...
text: Too many Apes, eager to help, are crowding the dais. Anna cannowv
text: reach her mistress, The Gorilla Police move in to hold them back.
dialog: 45,
text: Doc opens his bag, fills his hypodermic from the black-tagged
text: Plestic container and injects its contents into Lisa's arm, Five
text: minutes later she is dead.
text: Doc, stunned and bewildered, can only stare and stare - first at
text: Lisa, then at his hypodermic. Caesar, reverting momentarily to
text: primitivity, utters a single howl of grief and, with hands pressed
text: to his aching head, begins to "keen" in a low, moaning note as he
text: recks from side to side inconsolably. The CROWD begins to surge
text: towards the dais, but are held back by Aldo's Gorilla Police.
text: Zeno is given access to the dais; by Macdonald, trying to fight
text: through to Caesar's side, is clubbed to unconsciousness dy a
dialog: rifle-butt,
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: (calling from dais)
dialog: The Queen is dead,
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (among his troops,
dialog: from below)
dialog: The Queen is murdered!
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (regaining his senses)
dialog: Lex! Look to the child...
text: He rises and peers about the dias. Then, in panic:
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: {roaring)
dialog: Le-e-e-x!
text: Over a sudden, appalled and total hush, we:
dialog: cut TO:
dialog: 46,
text: "Lex" moving quickly but carefully through a high thicket above
text: the Amphitheatre . . . with the blanketed baby in his arms. He
text: pauses for a second to lock down on:
text: Aldo ordering out, first, the cavalry to sweep the countryside in
text: & search for "Lex"; then the police to arrest Doc, “the assassin";
text: and finally the infantry to herd all the Humans like cattle into
text: their compound and set up guards round both it and the Human
dialog: children's school.
dialog: 47,
scene_heading: QUICK SHOTS, CROSS-CUTTING
text: - Cavalry thunderously chasing "Lex", who escapes unseen
text: after appallingly narrow shaves.
text: - Lisats corpse being shouldered away from the Amphitheatre
text: by chimp stretcher-bearers.
text: - Doc's bag being dumped on a table for examination by
dialog: an Orangutan,
text: - "Lex", with blanketed-baby, slipping safely into the
text: Mutant's cave-mouth,
dialog: CUT TO;
text: At Gorilla Police Headquarters, Doc is savagely grilled by a
text: Gorilla and an Orangutan interrogator. Doc protests that the
text: drug containers must have been switched by "Lex" to create a
dialog: confusion in which the Queen's death would distract attention
text: from the kidnapping of the baby. Scene ends on:
dialog: Doc
text: Lex must have been an impostor.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP: ZENO
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: Or a conspirator.
scene_heading: PULL BACK TO:
text: A distraught Caesar presiding over a fierce debate of the
dialog: Inner Council. In gist:
dialog: 48,
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: Or one of many conspirators.. How
dialog: many we do not know, So every human
dialog: head must roll.
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: Let us at least keep ours, What
dialog: motive had the Doctor for murder?
dialog: He'd already warned Caesar that
dialog: the Queen was unfit to attend the
dialog: child's public presentation, He
dialog: was among the most privileged of our
dialog: human advisers,
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: Even privileged worms turn. Unless
dialog: you stamp them into the ground.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (wearily)
dialog: Lex was privileged, too. Might
dialog: they not both have conspired to kill
dialog: my wife and kidnap my Son?
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: Then why did he make no attempt to
dialog: escape with Lex? I believe the
dialog: Doctor's story. I believe that Lex
dialog: switched the labels on the drugs. I
dialog: believe that Lex was planted among us
dialog: as & spy.
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: Wno by?
speaker_heading: PAN
text: By Nimrod, who wants to finish on
dialog: the battlefield...
scene_heading: SHOCK CUT TO:
dialog: "Lex" (we remember he was really a radio-technician) listening
text: to Mutant Transmitter.
speaker_heading: PAN'S VOICE (Cont. )
dialog: (on distort)
dialog: - « « What he began with the bomb.
speaker_heading: W LEX Ww
dialog: {to Operator)
dialog: Keep monitoring. And get me Nimrod,
dialog: CUT TO;
dialog: 4g,
text: The North, Nimrod with two new AIDES listening to the radio in
text: the tent, whose flap is open,
speaker_heading: "LEX'S" VOICE
text: The Queen is dead and Caesar is
dialog: brainsick, The Apes are divided -
dialog: and they'll be more so, when I
dialog: activate the devices. What do you
dialog: propose?
text: Nimrod looks out through tent-flap at:
text: P.O.V. LONG SHOT: The car graveyard, which is no longer a
text: graveyard, Scores of mechanics have transformed abandoned hulks
text: into viable vehicles. The vechicles may be old crocks but
text: (we hear a distant engine briefly revving) the crocks are by
text: no means crippled, Over this, as revving cuts out:
speaker_heading: NIMROD'S VOICE
dialog: We're coming south.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: PANNING SHOT: V.I.P. Shelter under Modern City. It has been
text: cleaned up and sparsely furnished. A wall shelf contains a
dialog: few canned goods that could have been officially distributed from
text: cellared stocks below the bomb's reach. PAN ENDS on:
text: Previously-established MUTANTS 1 and 2 seated at the wooden
text: table's head. The hideous Ferale Mutant is feeding the kidnapped
text: Baby Chimp from a bottle, and crooning a traditional lullaby whose
text: words (curiously) seem more apposite to simian than human babies.
scene_heading: FEMALE MUTANT
dialog: "Hushaby, baby, on the tree-top.
text: When the wind blows, the cradle will rock.
text: When the bough breaks, the cradle will fell.
dialog: And down will come baby and cradie and all.”
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: MALE MUTANT
dialog: (tenderly)
dialog: It's like having a baby of our own.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Council Meeting continuing, Caesar, under increasing mental and
text: physical stress, shows signs of cracking. Muffled hammering
text: sounds intermittently outside, during:
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: My wife is murdered and my son
text: stolen. The Humans are in conspiracy
dialog: against us,
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: There is no evidence that all
dialog: Humans -
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (yelling like Hitler)
dialog: The point about conspiracy is that
dialog: there should be no evidence,
dialog: (quieter)
dialog: Which of them can now be trusted?
text: A silence, broken by:
speaker_heading: ALDO
text: The answer to mistrust is massacre.
dialog: If they live, they talk. If they talk,
dialog: they plot, If they plot, we die.
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: (leaping to his feet)
dialog: Caesar has sworn publicly that "the
dialog: time for killing is over!" That is
dialog: an oath which cannot be broken.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (with a slyness that
dialog: should shock us)
dialog: It can be modified.
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: By cutting out their tongues,
text: A longer silence, broken by:
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: There must be more merciful ways
dialog: of making @ man dumb.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: {abruptly rising)
dialog: Then find them.
text: And he stalks darkly out of the Council Chamber through the
text: ante-room door, leaving:
dialog: After a pause:
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: (appalled)
dialog: It's madness.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: It makes sense, If they cannot
dialog: speak, they cannot conspire. If
dialog: they cannot conspire, they cannot
dialog: dominate.
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: You may be right, But they still
dialog: have the child. I'm worried about
dialog: the child,
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: I'm worried about the Children.
speaker_heading: cuT TO;
dialog: 52.
text: Caesar entering Bedchamber, where Lisa lies robed "in state",
text: As he kneels by the bedside, telling her that her death shall
text: be revenged, the hammering starts up again. Caesar strides
text: angrily to the window and confronts:
text: P.O.V, CLOSE SHOT: Brad, the carpenter, flanked by two Gorilla
text: Guards, He deferentially explains that he is completing a coffin
text: for the Queents Funeral tomorrow, and now carefully, delicately
text: screws in a single ornamental metal knob on the coffints lid,
dialog: So carefully, so delicately, that we shall remember the scene
dialog: in retrospect,
speaker_heading: BRAD
dialog: It's finished,
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Medical Hut starting on CLOSE TOP SHOT of a neatiy dissected
text: rabbit, pinned down and variously labeled on a wooden board,
text: We PAN down to a dead dove, doubtless awaiting similar treatment
text: beside it, and -PULL BACK to include Zeno and ZAIA in a bare room
text: hung with anatomical charts of Apes and Humans. One chart
text: compares their vocal systems.
text: Zaia is & young and personable ferale Orangutan - possibly an
text: ancestress of Dr. Zaius in Apes 1 and 2,
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: Zaia, I speak in confidence, For
dialog: our survival's sake, this thing may
dialog: soon have to be done, All I'm now
dialog: asking you, as the Doctor's best
dialog: pupil in anatomy, is how it could
dialog: effectively be done with the least
dialog: pain.
dialog: 53.
text: Zaie picks up a pointer and moves confidently to the wall-charts,
speaker_heading: ZAIA
dialog: The Doctor says that every human
dialog: being above the level of an idiot
text: develops a speech-center on one side
dialog: of the brain depending on whether he
dialog: is left or right handed. There are
dialog: modern procedures which so pinpoint
text: the speech-center, and the audio and
dialog: visual areas tied in With it, that
dialog: ali the faculties concerned could be
dialog: obliterated = as painlessly as they
dialog: would be by an electrically induced
dialog: stroke,
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: Could Man, so treated, still serve
dialog: the community in however lowly a
dialog: capacity?
speaker_heading: ZAIA
dialog: Only as fodder for the birds and
dialog: beasts and the fishes that he's almost
text: succeeded in exterminating.
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: We don't want that - yet,
speaker_heading: ZAIA
dialog: {indicating on chart)
dialog: Then with relatively little pain, you
dialog: could sever the laryngeal nerve
text: lilaterally in the neck - and paralyze
text: his vocal chords without paralyzing
text: his other faculties.
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: Could you perform such an operation?
speaker_heading: ZATA
dialog: I'm an anatonist. Not a surgeon.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: But -
dialog: Huran Compound,
dialog: cage-bans,
dialog: 54,
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: ZAIA
dialog: If I saw a demonstration ...
scene_heading: SHOCK CUT TO:
text: BIG HEAD of Doc, appalled and sweating behind
dialog: pac
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Nol
text: As he Speaks, we PULL BACK to inelude Macdonald, equally appalled,
text: still caged beside him,
dialog: boc
dialog: I will not mutilate my own kind!
dialog: If you put a scalpel in my hand,
dialog: I shall use it on my throat,
speaker_heading: cuT TO:
text: REVERSE P.0,V. SHOT: Outside the cage and glaring in, are
text: Caesar (now indubitably mad} and Aldo, flanked by two Gorilla
dialog: Guards.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (iciiy)
dialog: If you do, the surgery will be
dialog: performed by the aptest of your
text: Ape pupils - doubtless more clumsily,
dialog: probably more painfully and possibly
dialog: lethally. Let us pray that she will
dialog: improve with experience.
dialog: poc
dialog: But, Caesar .. . why?
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: You murdered Caesar's wife -
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: No! The labels were -
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: Your colleague stole his child.
dialog: boc
dialog: Yes, but he was only one...
speaker_heading: CAESAR
text: {looking shiftily from
dialog: Side to side)
dialog: Among how many? I offered you membership
dialog: of a kingdom at peace. You gave me
dialog: treachery, and are guilty of treason,
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Even the children?
speaker_heading: CAESAR
text: They will grow into traitors.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: And 1?
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Armando once told me the-story of
dialog: Judas, You, above all,
text: In the silence we hear the approaching thud of galloping horses’
text: hooves.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
text: There seems no futher point in talking.
text: We PAN to the Gorilla Cavalry Commander dismounting,
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: {very tense)
dialog: News.
dialog: 56.
dialog: It is neither a question nor a statement but a command; and
text: the Commander is loth to obey it. “He holds up a shred of torn
dialog: fabric.
dialog: Caesar is rubbing
speaker_heading: COMMANDER
dialog: We found this on a thornbush.. .
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: « « . in the thicket above the
text: Amphitheatre.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (taking it)
text: It's from the blanket.
speaker_heading: COMMANDER
text: There were tracks down to the river,
dialog: but we couldn't pick them up on the
text: far side. The water's shallow. He
dialog: could have walked miles upstream or
dialog: down,
text: the fabric against his cheek.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: You're still searching?
speaker_heading: COMMANDER
dialog: I called the main body back -
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Why ?
speaker_heading: COMMANDER
text: There was a dust-cloud to the north
dialog: of the Old City.
text: We CUT IN CLOSE SHOT of the caged Macdonald, suddenly very alert.
text: He shoots a meaningful glance at Doc.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (scornful)
dialog: The country round the Old City is
dialog: all dust.
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: COMMANDER
text: The cloud was moving.
text: Now Aldo turns as alert as:
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: Caesar, I said there seemed no further
dialog: point in talking. I meant that
dialog: literally.
dialog: ("dramatic" pause)
dialog: I offer myself to be made mute.
dialog: Doc
dialog: ("resigned")
text: The daylight's fading. Tomorrow,
dialog: Caesar, at high noon,
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (curtly)
dialog: You have saved your people certainly
text: from pain and possibly from massacre.
dialog: (turning on Commander)
dialog: Why did you call back the main body?
speaker_heading: ALDO
text: Caesar, the dust-cloud was_moving.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (vaguely)
dialog: When the wind blows...
dialog: cuUT TO;
scene_heading: InT. V.I.P, Shelter, starting on CLOSEUP of Ferale Mutant
text: crooning to Baby Chimp.
scene_heading: FEMALE MUTANT
dialog: {as though completing
dialog: Caesar's line
dialog: « « « the cradle will rock.
text: We PULL BACK to include Male Mutant with "Lex" who looks down
text: on the Baby with smiling satisfaction.
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: FEMALE MUTANT (Cont.)
text: When the bough breaks, the cradle will fall.
dialog: Down will come cradle and.baby and all.
text: "Lex" moves to open the door, from which he looks back,
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: Take good care of him, We need him,
scene_heading: FEMALE MUTANT
dialog: (dotingly)
dialog: So do we.
text: As "Lex" shuts the door behind him:
speaker_heading: cUuT TO:
text: EXT. SPECIAL EFFECT: The faraway dust-cloud moving south along
text: the desert horizon, Too faraway for our eyes or ears to identify
dialog: its mature... yet,
dialog: curt TO:
dialog: 59.
text: Reneath Modern City. "Lex", striding between the cracked walls
text: of a subterranean corridor, is allowed ingress by two Mutant
text: GUARDS to the City's old Arsenal, where Danny the Gunsmith
text: (with the help of Mutant labor) is consulting blueprints and
text: supervising the construction of a medium-sized projectile,
dialog: whose sinister oddity of design we shall leave to the ingenuity
dialog: of our Art Department.
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: (extending hand)
dialog: We met in the cave-mouth,.
speaker_heading: DANNY
text: (grinning and shaking
dialog: hands)
dialog: Right! It's nice to meet a fellow-hu
dialog: (man) -
dialog: (stopping tactfully
dialog: short
dialog: - @ fellow.
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: What are you making?
text: Danny looks first at the blueprints and then at the projectile.
text: He scratches his head.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: (genuinely)
dialog: I don't know.
dialog: CUT TO;
text: EXT. NIGHT. Nimrod and Aide in a veteran Jeep at the head of
text: a column whose noise proclaims it to be motorized.
speaker_heading: NIMROD
dialog: (quietly into
dialog: walky-talky)
dialog: Halt.
text: The sound of engines cuts out. In the silence, the rising dust
text: obscures the risen moon.
speaker_heading: cuT TO:
dialog: 60,
scene_heading: Ape City - HIGH NOON, CROSS-CUTTING
text: - EXT. Lisa's impressive Funeral. Six Chimpanzees are
text: Coffin Bearers; and behind them walk Caesar (head bowed
text: in grief) followed by Aldo, Zeno, Pan and a ceremonial
text: detachment of Gorilla Infantry. As the cortege advances
dialog: between Ape Spectators:
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: {aside to Zeno}
dialog: When my mother's time came for
text: dying, she went into the woods -
dialog: and died, She has no grave.
text: Zeno shrugs.
text: - INT, Medical Hut. Preparations for Doc's operation on
text: Macdonald's vocal chords. Zaia has acquired a certain
text: proficient menace as she straps Macdonald to the wooden
text: operating-table and begins deftly to shave the stubble
text: on both sides of his neck with a cut-throat razor.
text: Outside the open window, a Gorilla Guard looks in.
text: - A group of Young Gorillas complete the digging of a
text: grave, as the Cortege approaches from b.g¢.
text: - With strips of lint dipped first into a bowl and then
text: into a perspex bottle, Zaia disinfects and locally
text: anaesthetizes the shaven areas of Macdonald's neck,
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (with difficulty
dialog: achieving self-control)
dialog: Good girl.
text: She hands him a scalpel.
dialog: 61,
text: - The coffin with its ornamental metal knob is lowered
text: into the grave, over which Zeno extends a hand in
dialog: benediction,
speaker_heading: ZENO
dialog: May you see God, who created us
dialog: in His irage.
text: 4 Chirp grave digger begins to shovel back the earth.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Stand back, all of you - and let
dialog: me bid her good-byel
text: 7¢ Jumps into the shallow grave and puts his lips to the coffin-
dialog: lid.
text: - Doc's scalpel touching Macdonald's neck for the first
dialog: incision.
speaker_heading: ZAIA
dialog: Doctor, that is not the correct
dialog: point of entry.
text: Ostside the Gorilla Guard stiffens. Inside Doc behaves as though
text: he'c been testing Zaia, but now knows that he has taught her too
dialog: well.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: (sweating)
dialog: Ten out of ten. I told you you'd
dialog: make a great surgeon. Now you mark
dialog: it for me.
speaker_heading: nm
text: ne takes a felt pen and marks the spot with a white cross,
dialog: 62.
text: CHOKER SHOT: Caesar's lips near to the coffin lid's metal knob.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Lisa, dearest Lisal Your death
dialog: will be avenged. For your sake, I
dialog: shall not kill those who have
dialog: killed you.
speaker_heading: cUuT TO:
text: Underground transmitter with Mutant Operators, and "Lex" listening,
speaker_heading: CAESAR'S VOICE
dialog: (on distort)
dialog: I shall strike them dumd!}
speaker_heading: LEX
dialog: Now.
text: A Ferale Mutant OPERATOR puts on a pair of thick pebble-spectacles
text: and begins to read from a prepared typescript in a thin, soft
dialog: whisper.
speaker_heading: FEMALE OPERATOR
dialog: {reading into mike)
dialog: ‘Caesar!'
speaker_heading: cUuT TO:
text: Lisa's grave. Caesar (frozen, incredulous) hears issuing,
text: epp2rently from the coffin, the thin, soft whisper that could be
text: the dead Lisa's voice.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR'S VOICE
dialog: 'Listen, Caesar, Your enemies are
text: outside, not inside, the City.
text: The child is well and in safe
dialog: hands. But if you shed or order
text: the shedding of one drop of human
dialog: blood . . .«
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 63.
text: FLASH: Doc's scalpel pressing against the cross marked on
text: Macdonald's neck.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
text: Caesar, crouched over Lisa's coffin.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR'S VOICE
dialog: - » » the child will die.
text: Caesar leaps out of the grave and runs, yelling, towards the
text: Medical hut's open window.
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: Docto-o-ori Doctor Clement!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: FLASH: Doc's hand withdraws his scalpel-point from Macdonald's
text: uninjured neck.
dialog: cur TO:
text: Zeno, Aldo, Pan and Infantrymen who have (on Caesar's order)
text: withdrawn too far from the grave to have heard the whispering
dialog: "voice",
speaker_heading: ZENO
text: Hets gone mad.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (to Infantry)
dialog: Head him off!
text: As they hesitate, Aldo draws a gun.
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (roaring)
dialog: That is an orderlt
dialog: 64,
text: The Infantrymen race to try and intercept Caesar before he reaches
text: the Medical Hut, in whose doorway stand Doc, Macdonald and (behind
text: thex) a bewildered Zaia. Aldo and Zeno follow leaving:
speaker_heading: PAN
dialog: (to chimp Coffin Bearers)
dialog: If I knew there were a God, I would
dialog: pray to Him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Outside the Medical Hut, Caesar turns to face his pursuers. His
text: wife (he says) has spoken to him from the grave, Zeno and Aldo
text: exchange bodeful glances, as Caesar continues. His child is
text: alive but will be slaughtered if one drop of human blood is shed
text: at his order. He screams at the pain in his head, and ends:
speaker_heading: CAESAR
dialog: (an insane yell)
dialog: Set all humans freel
text: Macdonald, not far from Caesar's side, intercepts a final, silent
text: exchange between Aldo putting his hand on his gun, and Zeno nodding.
text: As Aldo draws, Macdonald flings himself in front of Caesar - and is
text: instantly shot dead, His fall re-exposes Caesar, Aldo fires
text: again, and Caesar falis dying beside Macdonald, whose name he whispers
text: twice before death cuts short what would have been a plea for
dialog: forgiveness,
speaker_heading: ALDO
dialog: (aiming gun at Doc)
dialog: Now we can make war,
dialog: 65.
scene_heading: SYNOPSIS OF FINAL PHASE
text: Scarcely has Alco spoken, than a shell explodes short of the Human
text: compound and an ancient recce-plane radios back the information to
text: Nimrod's artillery, Aldo and his retinue race to organize the
text: Ape counter-attack, Even as they leave, two more shelis destroy
text: the Human Compound - but not before the Children have escaped in
text: the confusion through the perimeter fence of wooden stakes planted
text: too closely for adult Humans to wriggle through.
text: Nimrod has destroyed the Humans intentionally. They are “collaborazsr
text: with the Apes and constitute a Fifth column that must be exterrinat.
dialog: 
text: The main Ape-Huran battle is joined in the rocky open country betweer
text: the site of Modern City and Ape City. Basically it is a battle
text: between Humans driving veteran vehicles with the reckless abandon of
text: stock cars, and Apes on foot or horseback. But the Apes' armory
text: (cannon and small-arms brought from the Modern City Arsenal) is
text: bigger and more up-to-date than Nimrod's. They have also been
dialog: taught (when building Ape City) to lay and detonate explosive
text: charges, which they use to deadly effect in rear of Nimrod's out-
text: flanked Army. The battle rages with the do-or-die intensity of
text: Custer's Last Stand, Nets, too, are brought into use, and the
text: srerled-up vehicles are pounded by gunfire into immobility.
dialog: n
dialog: 66.
text: #4 hanstul of Human survivors flee for refuge to the cave mouth,
text: wnese location they know. They are joined in flight by the
text: escapes children, and the group enters the cave mouth to descend
dialog: inte Mutantville below,
text: But Ape Scouts have observed this, and Aldo now advances his cavalry
text: in a final charge which isolates Nimrod and is driving him back
dialog: cwarss the cave mouth when:
text: rex. the cave mouth itself, Danny the Gunsmith and Mutant Technicians
text: fire vhe mysterious projectile which falls just short of the
text: acvancing Apes and momentarily halts them, It doesn't explode, but
text: Rv ticks; and while it ticks, Mutant 1's voice on a loud hailer
text: Taxes an announcement.
text: The projectile contains (says the voice) a sophisticated and once-
text: vep-secret nerve gas which (through the innocent appearance of its
dialog: 
text: nders) escaped detection by the Apes in the old Arsenal. The
text: fasts volatility is as considerable as its operational range, and
dialog: its specific effect is painlessly to induce sterility and therefore
dialog: 
dialog: , reproductivity in those who inhale it. It is if you like
text: te teil it so, a Genocide Zord. And it will explode in "X" seconds.
dialog: 
dialog: 67.
text: zeno and Aldo need only briefly confer before deciding to retreat -
dialog: for the Ape Race must survive by breeding, if it is to fulfill its
text: mission of dominating Mankind. As the Apes gallop away, the ticking
text: stops and the projectile explodes - too soon (we suspect) to save
dialog: the Apes from sterility.
text: Mutant 1 now appears in the cave mouth to greet:
speaker_heading: NIMROD
dialog: They call me Nimrod, but my name
dialog: is General Mendez* I've
dialog: come to offer my services to the
dialog: Human cause.
dialog: (pausing in the
dialog: cave mouth)
dialog: What's the name of the nerve gas
dialog: in that projectile?
speaker_heading: MUTANT 1
dialog: It has no name.
speaker_heading: NIMROD
dialog: Because it's so secret?
speaker_heading: MUTANT 1
dialog: It has no secret either, It doesn't
text: exist. The projectile was empty.
text: Back in Ape City, Zeno reads a proclamation ordaining that from this
dialog: day Aldo and himself will be the City’s joint rulers. He also
text: ordains that the infected land between Modern City and Ape City
text: shall be called the "Forbidden Zone" (see Apes 1 and 2) and begins
text: to deliver the first of the anti-Human homilies later to be
text: * Mendez is the name of the dynasty that is one day to rule Mutantville.
dialog: We met Méndez XXVII in Apes 2.
dialog: 68.
dialog: incorporated in the Scrolls of the Lawgiver - by which name he
text: will be remembered for the next thousand years. As he speaks,
dialog: we -
scene_heading: TIME DISSOLVE T?:
text: From the cave mouth a little group of our Human Children emerge
text: cautiously, almost furtively, and peer into the sunset.
speaker_heading: MATILDA
dialog: What can he do down there but
dialog: pine and diel
speaker_heading: LITTLE BOY
dialog: He belongs with his own kind.
text: And they part to reveal the Baby Chimp (who has grown a bit since
text: we last saw him) being given a helping hand to the foreground. He
text: looks this way and that; sniffs the evening air; and then walxs away,
text: as alone as Chaplin, into the sunset and the land of his fathers,
dialog: Over this, we roll up:
speaker_heading: END TITLES
dialog: 
