speaker_heading: THe
dialog: 1 ead)
text: Reaches .
scene_heading: \BEMEMBERWME.
dialog: Sereanplay
dialog: By
dialog: Mary Agnes Donoghue
dialog: Bese ‘ony the novel:
dialog: 8 Rainer Dart
speaker_heading: FIFTH DRAFT
dialog: December 1987
dialog: 1.
speaker_heading: TITLE SEQUENCE
scene_heading: EXT. CARNEGIE HALL - NIGHT - THE PRESENT
text: It is snowing hard. A BUM is pawing through & trashcan
text: limos and taxis line the street waiting for the crowe to
text: emerge, DRIVERS stand under the overhang talking to each
text: other. From inside the theater, we hear thunderous app-
text: lause. The poster and marquee simply read “BLOOM" in
text: large, black letters.
scene_heading: INT. CARNEGIE HALL - NIGHT
text: cc BLOOM, at forty-one, has the figure of a thirty-year~
text: ola, and a wild explosion of red hair surrounds her arrest-
text: ing face like @& lion's mane. She is dressed in a perfect
text: black evening gown and is spotlit standing in the center
text: of an otherwise empty stage, taking bows to a standing
text: ovation from an opening night CROWD. She exhudes a brash,
text: outrageous and completely engaging charm.
dialog: ec
dialog: (into microphone)
dialog: Thank you! Thank you:
text: As the applause continues, she loses her composure and
text: starts pacing the stage with excitement, a brilliant smile
dialog: on her face. ,
dialog: ec
dialog: You people are too much:
dialog: You make being alive worth
dialog: the excercise:
dialog: (applause con-
dialog: tinues)
dialog: If you calm down, I'll do
dialog: one more song, but that's
dialog: it! I'm getting old: I'll
dialog: be thirty on my next birthday:
text: Laughter, then a silence 80 profound you could hear a
text: pin drop. CC nods at the CONDUCTOR, then we hear the in-
text: troduction to "SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME." CC sings the song
text: in a pure, rich voice, her phrasing original and moving.
dialog: . 2.
text: When the song ends, she leaves the stage to & standing
dialog: ovation.
scene_heading: INT. WINGS - CARNEGIE HALL - NIGHT
text: PEOPLE close in on CC to congratulate her. As she moves
text: slowly through the crowd the STAGE MANAGER pushes his way
text: to her and hands her a piece of paper.
speaker_heading: STAGE MANAGER
dialog: Phone message, CC.
text: cc is still accepting congratulations from people as she
text: unfolds the paper. . -
scene_heading: EXT, CARNEGIE HALL - NIGHT
text: Snow falls in a thick, white cloud. PEOPLE are still ex-
text: iting the theater, climbing into limos and taxis. Unnoticed
text: by the crowd, CC rushes from the building, now in street
text: clothes, still pulling on her fur coat and scarf. An empty
text: taxi is cruising past. She runs down the street after
text: it, grabs the door handle, sliding dangerously in the snow,
text: and runs along with it for a few feet until it skids to
text: a halt. As she pulls the door open and slides into the
dialog: back seat:
dialog: ce
dialog: (urgent)
dialog: La Guardia, please. Bos-
dialog: ton Shuttle.
text: The door slams shut behind her.
scene_heading: INT. TAXI = NiGHT
text: As ‘the DRIVER starts to pull away, he suddenly turns to
text: leok at her with a frown.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Hey. Aren't you...
dialog: ce
dialog: No.
text: He shrugs and goes back to his driving. CC leans her head
text: against the window and stares out at the falling snow
text: anxiously. The only sound is the driver talking softly to
text: the dispatcher over the radio, tires moving over the cushion
text: of snow and the windshield wipers slapping back and forth.
text: Slowly, the sound of people at a beach bleeds in.
scene_heading: TITLE SEQUENCE ENDS.
scene_heading: EXT. ATLANTIC CITY BOARDWALK - HOT SUMMER DAY ~ 1957
text: The boardwalk is packed with PEOPLE. A very pretty, meti-
text: culous-iooking girl of eleven, HILLARY WHITNEY, wearing
text: a sundress and sandals walks anxiously through the crowd,
text: scanning her surroundings with a@ panicky expression. She
text: finally walks over to the railing and looks out over the
text: beach with despair.
scene_heading: EXT, BEACH - DAY
text: Hillary slowly descends the stairs to the sand, then sudden-
text: ly sinks onto the bottom step, puts her face in her hands
text: and starts crying.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: {v.0.)
dialog: Don't tell me. You're
dialog: lost. I must see a hun-
dialog: dred cases like you every
dialog: day.
text: Startled by the childish but oddly mature voice coming
text: from the darkness under the beardwalk, Hillary quickly
text: turns, A thread of cigarette smoke drifts out.
dialog: ec
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: Want a drag?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (wiping tears)
dialog: A drag..?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (V.0.)
dialog: On my cigarette. It'll
dialog: calm your nerves. .
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (upset)
dialog: I want to go back to our
dialog: hotel, but I can't remem-
dialog: ber the name. My mother said..
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (cutting in,
dialog: bored V.0.)
dialog: Big or small?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: My mother..?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (exasperated V.0.)
dialog: The hotel.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Big.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (v.0.)}
dialog: Ritzy or cheap?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I guess it's...ritzy.
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: . - Does it have a fountain in
text: front, a pool inside and a
dialog: bunch of fruits in monkey
text: suits playing violins in the
dialog: lobby?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Yes:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: You bet your ass it's ritzy.
dialog: It's the Marlboro Blenheim.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (shrieking)
dialog: That's it! Do you know where
dialog: it is?
dialog: ce
dialog: (resigned V.0.)
dialog: Yeah. I*11 walk you back
dialog: if you want.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Oh, yes, please...what's your
dialog: name?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (dramatic V.0.)
dialog: What's my nacre? I am none
dialog: other than tre fantastic,
dialog: world-famous, cnild-wonder...
text: An outrageous-looking litte girl of eleven leaps out of
text: the darkness into the lisnt, still clutching the lit cig-
dialog: arette.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: cc Bloom:
text: cc has a mop of wildly curly red hair on her head and
text: a long, skinny frame with well-developed legs. She is
text: wearing a red=sequinned leotard, red polish on all nails
text: and is clutching a pair of glittering red tap shoes.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I'm Hillary Whitney.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (annoyed)
dialog: Don't you recognize me?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: No.
dialog: ce
dialog: I do the Mama number in the .
dialog: Tony Grant Kiddie Show:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: The what...?
dialog: ce
dialog: Jesus Christ, kid, what plan-
dialog: et do you live on? The Tony
dialog: Grant Show just happens to be
dialog: the most popular show in Atlan-
dialog: tie City and I'm the most popular
dialog: act in it:
dialog: (grudging)
dialog: Along with Karen Lewandowski,
text: the hand-walking queer.
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: (scream V.C.)
dialog: cc! Where are you, CC?:
dialog: ce
dialog: (stubbing cut
dialog: : cigarette)
dialog: Shit.
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Don't blew a gasket, Leona.
dialog: I'm down here.
text: A vulgar-looking FAT WOMAN in her forties appears at the
text: top of the steps.
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: Thank God: When I couldn't
dialog: find you in your dressing
dialog: room I thought you were dead:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: You watch too many movies,
dialog: Leona.
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: We have to get back to the
dialog: theater right away: There's
dialog: a Hollywood talent scout who
dialog: wants to: see your act:
text: Cc stares at her.
dialog: ec
dialog: Is this your idea of a sick
dialog: joke?
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: No! He caught the midnight
dialog: show last night and he's
dialog: erazy about you: He‘s looking
dialog: for a kid to star in a movie:
text: cc is suddenly taking the steps two at atime. She pauses
text: to look over her shoulder at Hillary.
dialog: ec
dialog: Well, don't just stand
dialog: there! C'mon: This is my
dialog: break into the big time:
text: Hillary hesitates for a split-second, then races after CC.
scene_heading: EXT. BOARDWALK - DAY
text: As the two girls rapidly pass Leona in the direction of
dialog: the theater:
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: And how many times do I
dialog: have to tell you not to
dialog: wear your costumes on the
dialog: beach?! I'm not made of money,
dialog: you know:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Get off my back, Leona:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Who is that woman...?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: What woman?
text: Hillary nods over her shoulder toward Leona, who is having
text: a hard time keeping up because of her weight.
dialog: ec
dialog: That's no woman, that's
dialog: my mother.
text: Hillary looks away, completely shocked.
scene_heading: INT, THEATER - DAY
text: While a MAN plays a piano, CC, now fully made-up as well
text: as in costume, tap dances to the center of the stage, does
text: a cartwheel and then in perfect control and with very mature
text: and suggestive gestures, sings in a strong, pure voice. .
dialog: ec
dialog: (singing)
dialog: You gotta see Mama every night
dialog: or you can't...
dialog: No, you can't...
dialog: I said you can't see your Mama
dialog: at all:
text: There is something freakish in both CC's appearance in
text: adult make-up and in hearing a fully developed voice emerge
text: from a child's body. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal Hillary,
text: Leona, TONY GRANT, a small, fat man in a cheap suit and
text: MR. MELMAN, a sleazy-looking character in Sy Devore whites,
text: as they burst into enthusiastic applause.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: cc! cC'mere and meet Mr.
dialog: Melman:
text: Her face on fire with excitement, CC runs to the edge of
text: the stage. Just as she reaches it, & STAGE-HAND shoves a
text: lighted staircase centerstage behind her. CC quickly
text: glances over her shoulder, then turns back, her face darken-
dialog: ing.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Karen Lewandowski's audi-
dialog: tioning too?
speaker_heading: TONY GRANT
dialog: Hey, CC, it wouldn't be fair
dialog: not to let...
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: I thought it was just me,
dialog: Leona:
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: It was, sweetie, but Mrs.
dialog: Lewandowski found out and...
dialog: cc.
dialog: (voice rising)
dialog: She found out from you,
dialog: didn't she?: You were
dialog: bragging again, weren't you,
dialog: Leona?:
text: During this,, a perfectly beautiful little GIRL is led on-
text: stage by her driven MOTHER. Before Leona can reply:
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: (fawning)
dialog: Karen's ready for you, Mr.
dialog: Melman.
text: Mr. Melman is looking past CC at the little girl with de-
text: lighted surprise.
speaker_heading: MELMAN
dialog: What a beautiful child:
text: As the piano starts playing "STAIRWAY TO PARADISE” CC
text: slowly turns, Singing sweetly, Karen flips herself onto
text: her hands and starts walking up the lighted staircase.
text: As CC stares, her eyes fill with tears.
dialog: ce
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Who cares what she looks
dialog: like? All she knows how to
dialog: do is walk on her hands:
scene_heading: INT, DRESSING ROOM - DAY
text: Leona tries to calm CC as she hurls herself around the
text: room, pounding the walls, ripping costumes from racks,
text: screaming and sobbing hysterically.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: It's your fault it happened:
dialog: It's your fault they picked
dialog: her! It should have been me:
dialog: She's like something in a cir-
dialog: cus! I wish I was dead: You'll
dialog: be sorry when I'm dead? You'll
dialog: all be...
text: Hillary appears holding out a lit cigar helpfully.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: cc: I brought you a cigar
dialog: from Mr. Melman:
speaker_heading: . LEONA
dialog: A cigar from Mr. Melman?: Why?:
speaker_heading: ‘HILLARY
dialog: Why else? To calm her nerves.
text: CC stares at her, then slides along the wall to the floor,
text: puts her face in her hands and breaks into soft, broken
text: laughter. Leona watches her anxiously, then:
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: Listen, sweetie, what do you
dialog: say we pack it in and go back
dialog: to the Bronx? You could hang
text: out with the other kids at the
dialog: pool and we could see Daddy.
dialog: Wouldn't that be nice, Ceece?
dialog: Don't you want to go home, baby?
text: Pause, then CC slowly lifts her head with exhaustion.
dialog: ce
dialog: (soft, lost)
dialog: Okay, Leona. Let's go home.
text: Leona grabs the cigar from Hillary, takes a deep drag and
text: exhales loudly with relief.
scene_heading: INT. PHOTO MACHINE - SAME DAY
text: The machine takes several snaps of CC and Hillary in various
text: poses, CC still in make-up and costume.
scene_heading: INT, MAIN STAIRCASE - MARLBORO BLENHEIM HOTEL - AFTERNOON
text: cc and Hillary climb the stairs to the mezzanine as Hillary
text: tears the photo strip in half. CC is still in make-up and
text: costume and they are in childish high spirits.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: You take these and I'll take those.
dialog: ec
dialog: You're taking the best ones:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (traaing)
dialog: I am not, bet you can have them:
dialog: (sudden, inspired)
dialog: You know what you need? A
dialog: theme song: Like Dinah Shore.
dialog: (sangiag)
dialog: See the U.S.A. in your chevrolet
dialog: America is as<ing you to call.
dialog: (throwing kiss)
dialog: ce
dialog: I don't want to sing about a car.
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: ec (cont'd.)
dialog: (dreamy)
dialog: Give me a Gershwin tune.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What's that about? A bike?
text: They have reached the top of the steps and CC freezes. The
text: elegant mezzanine restaurant is packed with well-heeled
text: PEOPLE having tea and the tables are attended by uniforned
text: WAITERS.
dialog: ce
dialog: (anxious)
dialog: What're we doing here?:
text: Hillary clamly starts walking toward a free table.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I want to buy you a soda
dialog: for walking me back.
text: CC hesitates, then goes after her, glancing around nervous-
text: ly at the people she passes, who are staring at her with
text: shocked disapproval.
dialog: ec
dialog: There's soda on the board-
dialog: walk:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: It's better here.
dialog: ec
dialog: But people are looking at me:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: So what?
text: Hillary sits down.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: So they'll probably kick
dialog: me out of a place like this:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: They can't.
text: cC stares at her, then just as she is about to sit:
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Just a minute you two:
dialog: You can‘t sit there:
dialog: ce
dialog: (mortified hiss)
dialog: I told you:
dialog: 1.
text: She remains standing as the WAITER rushes up. Hillary
text: stares at him with an unwavering gaze.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Yes, we can, My name's
dialog: Hillary Whitney, I'm staying
dialog: here with my parents and I want
dialog: a chocolate soda. What do you
dialog: want, CC?
text: CC hesitates, staring anxiously at the waiter, then:
dialog: ce
dialog: (quick)
dialog: The same.
text: The waiter looks at CC with distaste, glares back at
text: Hillary, who stares back firmly, then with an angry sniff
text: suddenly lifts his pad, writes in it, turns on his heel
text: and walks off. CC quickly sits down, impressed.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: How'd you do that?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (dismissive shrug)
dialog: Easy. My father's rich.
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Promise when you go home
dialog: you'll write to me in Boston?
dialog: ce
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: Sure,.but how come you want
dialog: to write to me so much?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Are you crazy?: You just
dialog: happen to be the most fantastic
dialog: person I ever met in my entire
dialog: life:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I am..?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: O£ course you are! ‘You smoke,
dialog: you wear make-up, you even curse
dialog: in front of your mother:
dialog: ce
dialog: (delighted)
dialog: Well, now that you put it that
dialog: way, I guess I am pretty amazing.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: When you started singing...
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: HILLARY (cont'd.)
text: ‘(singing loudly,
dialog: raunchy voice, hold=-
dialog: ; ing imaginery breasts)
dialog: You gotta see Mama every night
dialog: or you can't see Mama at all.
dialog: You gotta treat Mama...
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: (soft, amazed V.0.)
dialog: Hillary? What are you doing?
text: Hillary spins around to see her MOTHER, a tall, slender
text: woman in her thirties with beautiful, patrician features,
text: dressed in a white linen suit and sunglasses, walk up to
text: her with a dried-out woman of the same age, AUNT VESTA.
speaker_heading: HILLARY’
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Mom, Aunt Vesta: This is
dialog: cc! I got lost and she
dialog: showed me the way back after
dialog: she did her Mama number:
speaker_heading: VESTA
dialog: (soft, horrified)
dialog: Her Mama number. ..?
text: As Hillary's mother looks at CC she breaks into a warm,
text: charming smile.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: I'm sure it was wonderful.
dialog: Look at that amazing outfit
dialog: you have on. :
dialog: (to Hillary)
dialog: We were looking everywhere
dialog: for you: Did you forget
dialog: we were going with your
dialog: father to the golf club?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: But CC and I are having a soda.
text: CC, who has been staring at Hillary's mother as if she is
text: a@ goddess, comes around and stands up awkwardly.
dialog: ce
dialog: Hey, forget it: If I don't
dialog: go back Leona'll start foam-
text: ing at the mouth anyway.
text: As Hillary gets up her mother takes her hand and smiles
text: at CC. Vesta is fumbling in her purse.
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Thank you for looking after
dialog: my girl.
text: As they turn away, Vesta suddenly shoves some bills into
text: cc's hand with distaste.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: What's this for..?
speaker_heading: VESTA
dialog: (disapproving)
dialog: It keeps people like you
dialog: honest.
text: As Vesta walks after Hillary and Hillary's mother, Hillary
text: suddenly looks back over her shoulder at CC.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (bright, excited)
dialog: Be sure to keep in touch,
dialog: cc, okay?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Well, sure, we're friends
dialog: aren't we..? .
text: Hillary doesn't hear as she vanishes down the steps with
text: her mother and Vesta. CC looks after them with longing for
text: a moment, then looks down at the money in her hand. The
text: waiter arrives and she suddenly shoves the money into his
dialog: pocket.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: What's this for..?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (teugh, cocky)
dialog: It keeps people like you
dialog: honest, buddy.
text: As she walks off toward the stairs, her taps clicking
text: cheerfully on the marble floor, her step quickly turns
text: into a defiant, little walking dance which attracts the
text: stares of everyone she passes. When she reaches the top
text: of the stairs, all eyes upon her, she suddenly breaks into a
text: quick combination step, as if she is exiting @ stage, then
text: taps her way lightly down the marble stairs until she dis-
text: appears from sight.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRY OF EPISCOPAL CHURCH - BOSTON - RAINY DAY - 1959
text: Two years older, dressed in black and looking as if she
dialog: 14.
text: has been crying, Hillary stands next to the closed street
text: door, reading a letter. As she reads, we hear:
dialog: ce
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: Leona won't let me go to
dialog: Julliard, so I have to
dialog: keep taking dancing lessors
dialog: from Miss Jean Kayton, the
dialog: freaky fat vaudeville star.
text: Her studio's in the cellar,
dialog: which means you only graduate
dialog: when you're tall enough to
dialog: hit your hea on the ceiling.
dialog: What's a genius like me doing
dialog: in a place like this?; By
dialog: the way, I'm sorry your mother's
dialog: sick. Is she better?
text: At that moment, the door to the street is abruptly pulled
text: open. A handsome man in his forties, also dressed in black
text: and looking shattered, stands under an umbrella on the steps.
text: At the curb, we see a coffin being slipped into the back of
text: a hearse, which is surrounded by a group of MOURNERS under
text: umbrellas. Hillary stares at the vision with a stunned
text: frightened face, then care fully folds CC‘s letter and puts
text: it into her pocket, takes her father's hand and walks out
dialog: into the rain. ,
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL GYMNASIUM - NIGHT - 1962
text: It is decorated for a dance and packed with teenagers danc-
text: ing a slow dance to recorded rock and roll. Locking un-
text: happy, CC stands with a group of unattractive girls at the
text: pase of the stage near the refreshments table. Her clothes
dialog: are too tight fa her voluptuous body so make her look fat,
text: her curly hair is crushed to her head with clips and her
text: make-up is designed to exaggerate her worst features.
text: She clearly has no idea of what she looks like but sus~
text: pects it is not good. As she reads a letter, we hear:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (v.02)
dialog: I've definately decided
dialog: on Vassar. You asked what
dialog: I'm going to be wnen I grow
dialog: up. I have a feeling I'm go-
dialog: ing to be my father. He never
dialog: lets me out of his sight since
dialog: my mother died.
dialog: is.
text: During this a boy walks up to the group. The girls look
text: at him hopefully, including CC. ‘His eyes meet hers, she
text: smiles invitingly, he stares for a moment longer, then
text: turns and walks away. She sighs with despair as she goes
text: back to the letter.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: By the way, I really res-
dialog: pect your decision to de-
dialog: dicate your life to art in-
dialog: stead of boys. That kind of
dialog: sacrifice shows great charac-
dialog: ter.
scene_heading: EXT. VASSAR CAMPUS - SUNNY SPRING DAY - 1968
text: Hillary, now a stunningly beautiful woman, walks slowly
text: across the lawn toward a building in a crowd of STUDENTS,
text: carrying books and clumsily writing a letter. She has the
dialog: kind of fresh, intelligent face that will still be beautiful
text: in old age, bones that promise character and an innate
text: grace that expresses itself effortlessly.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
speaker_heading: (vV.0.)
dialog: It's not the same for me,
dialog: I don't have yur talent,
dialog: which is why I've decided
dialog: to stay in Boston and take
dialog: the job in my uncle's law
text: firm. Drawing up wills and
dialog: dissolving marriages is bor-
dialog: ing no matter where you do it
dialog: and my father would be desolé
dialog: (that's French for fucked up)
dialog: if I left. Will I ever see you
dialog: again? How is New York? I'm
dialog: sure by now you've taken it by
dialog: storm.
scene_heading: INT. MACY'S DEPARTMENT STORE - NEW YORK - DAY - 1971
text: The place is decorated for Christmas and packed with SHOPPERS.
text: A special display features an excercise bed ~- a double bed
text: mattress which vibrates and undulates simultaneously.
text: CC, wearing a negligee and writing a letter, is strapped to
text: the mattress, oblivious to the stares of the buying public.
text: Gone is the insecure teenager and in her place is a striking
text: woman with a lush body and a great mane of blinding red hair.
text: CC the adult knows what she looks like and makes the most of
dialog: it.
dialog: ce
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: Forgive the writing
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: cc (cont'd.)
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: but I'm trying to do it
dialog: while making a special
text: guest appearance at Macy.'s.
dialog: I was just about to committ
text: suicide by taking an overdose
dialog: of vitamin A when your letter
dialog: arrived telling me I am a genius
dialog: and not to lose heart. I de-
dialog: cided to live even though I
dialog: have not had a single performing
dialog: job in eight months, I have been
dialog: turned down by every agent in
dialog: «town, I‘m broke and desperately
dialog: lonely during this festive season.
dialog: Lucky you.
dialog: 
text: The sound of a train station bleeds in.
scene_heading: INT. PENN STATION - PLATFORM - NIGHT
text: CLOSE ON A DISCARDED TIMETABLE as many feet walk over it.
dialog: The date is February 11, 1972
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: ' Tucked safely in the bosom
dialog: of your family.
text: As a very expensive pair of woman's boots walk over it.
text: CAMERA MOVES UP AND BACK AND FOLLOWS HILLARY as she makes
text: her way with the crowd toward the main terminal building.
text: She is struggling with a few pieces of expensive luggage
text: and has a crumpled Boston Globe jammed under her arm. She
dialog: is @ressed in conservative but stylish clothes - man's
text: cashmere coat, wool challis skirt, silk shirt, etc.
scene_heading: INT. PENN STATION ~ MAIN TERMINAL - NIGHT
text: Hillary quickly walks to a bank of pay phones, an anxious
text: look on her. face, takes a great pile of change from her .
text: purse, lights a cigarette hungrily, then feeds change into
text: the phone and dials a long distance number. The phone
dialog: rings, then:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (bright, tense)
dialog: Hi, Dad? It's me, Hillary.
dialog: (pause, anxious)
dialog: Well, no, I won't be joining
dialog: you ‘for dinner tonight, I'm...
dialog: I'm in New York...
dialog: (pause, desperate)
dialog: Well, I. don't know...I thought
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: HILLARY (cont'd.)
dialog: maybe I'd check out some
dialog: job possibilities here and...
dialog: (pause, pleading)
dialog: Please, Dad, please don't be
dialog: upset, I've been trying to tell
dialog: you for months I wanted to go but
dialog: you wouldn't listen so I...
dialog: (pause, uneasy)
dialog: Dad..? Are you still there...?
dialog: (flat, firm)
dialog: Fuck you, Dad.
text: She hangs up, tosses her Boston Globe dramatically into
text: a nearby trashcan and resumes her journey to the street
text: with her luggage, anxiety replaced by an excited determina-
dialog: tion. .
scene_heading: INT. SEEDY PIANO BAR ~ MID-TOWN MANHATTAN - NIGHT
text: Wearing a skin-tight thirties evening gown, a huge fake er-
text: mine boa and lots of rhinestone jewelry, CC sings GOOD MORN-
text: ING HEARTACHE to an indifferent crowd, accompanied on the
text: piano. At one table a drunken couple talk and laugh loudly,
text: at ancther a woman sobs next to a man who sits with his face
text: in his hands, at the bar businessmen are hustled by hookers,
text: etc. Although CC has a. desparate lock on her face, she
text: sings honestly and from the heart to her dismal audience.
text: When the song ends, she waits expectantly but nothing happens.
text: She smiles slightly and bows.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Thank you, thank you:
dialog: You're too, too kind!
scene_heading: INT. PIANO BAR OFFICE - NIGHT
text: The mom is more like a dirty, little broom closet than
text: an office and a gay man of forty, HARRY, with a tired, ruined
text: face is counting money into a strong-box when CC walks in.
dialog: ec
dialog: (bright, strained)
dialog: So, Harry, did you catch
dialog: that set? Those people are
dialog: crazy about me:
dialog: (no response)
dialog: They're so crazy about me
dialog: they're spending money hand
dialog: over fist:
dialog: (no response; sweet)
dialog: So I was wondering, Harry,
dialog: could you lend me fifty bucks
dialog: until payday?
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: (counting money
dialog: No.
dialog: ce
dialog: (hysterical fit)
dialog: That's it: That's the end:
dialog: I can't take anymore: I mean,
dialog: what is this place, a piano bar
dialog: or a Nazi work camp?! I'm dying
dialog: of malnutrition from living on
dialog: dogfood, I sing my heart out for
dialog: peanuts and you can't part with
dialog: fifty fucking bucks you already
dialog: owe me?! Do you realize how lucky
dialog: you are to have me for two weeks?
dialog: When my run ends you could end
text: up with some bimbo who’walks on
dialog: her hands for a living: You...
text: Without looking up, he holds up a fifty dollar bill, and
text: she quickly walks over and takes it. -
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (grateful)
dialog: sare an angel, Harry, straight
dialog: from heaven. I£.your mother :
dialog: hadn't been such a bitch we might
dialog: have shared something important,
dialog: you know?
text: As he gives her a look, we hear:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (breathless excite-
dialog: ment)
dialog: cc..? CC Bloom..?
text: eC turns to see Hillary standing in the doorway. She looks
text: at her without recognition.
dialog: ee
dialog: Yeah?
text: Hillary steps into the room.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Oh, CC; I'm so thrilled:
dialog: I can't believe we're finally
dialog: in the same room together:
dialog: I've been dreaming of this
dialog: moment for so long:
text: cc stares at her, then frowns slightly.
dialog: 219.
dialog: ce
dialog: Look, honey, I don't know
dialog: what you're after, but if
dialog: it's what I think it is,
dialog: you've got the wrong girl.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: What?
dialog: ce
dialog: You're not my type, com-
dialog: prenez-vous?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: cc: Don't you recognize
dialog: me?: It's Hillary:
text: CC stares at her, then her eyes begin to widen.
dialog: ce
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Whitney...?
text: Hillary nods. CC stares at her, then slowly walks toward
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft, amazed)
dialog: How could I recognize you?
dialog: I haven't seen you since
dialog: we were eleven...
text: She suddenly lets out a great shriek of excitement and Harry
text: slaps his hands over his ears in pain as the two women em-
dialog: brace.
dialog: “ ec
dialog: I don't believe this:
dialog: (to Harry)
dialog: Do you believe this, Harry?
dialog: We've been writing since we
dialog: were eleven:
dialog: (to Hillary)
dialog: What are you doing in
dialog: York?!
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: : (confused laugh)
dialog: I don't know,
dialog: (emotional)
dialog: I just walked out on my life
dialog: in Boston tonight. I felt
dialog: so suffocated I couldn't stand
dialog: it anymore so I just left.
dialog: . 20.
speaker_heading: HILLARY (cont ‘d.)
dialog: My job, my apartment, my family...
dialog: ec
dialog: (cutting in, tense)
dialog: Your money too..?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (startled)
dialog: Well, I hadn't thought about
dialog: it, but yes, I guess my money
dialog: too.
text: With a heartbroken cry, CC puts her face in her hands.
scene_heading: EXT, SOHO STREET - NIGHT
text: The wind blows bits of newspaper around as CC and Hillary,
text: carrying Hillary's luggage, approach the lighted doorway
text: of a loft building. CC is now wearing a huge, second-
text: hand fur and English riding boots and Hillary is looking
text: around at the overturned trashcans, seedy bars and collapsed
text: DRUNKS uneasily.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (bright, strained)
dialog: I really appreciate the offer,
dialog: cc, put I'm sure I can find
dialog: a place of my own to live.
dialog: ec
dialog: In this neighborhood?: Never:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Yes, well, I guess there's
dialog: always uptown.
dialog: ec
dialog: You're broke! And anyway, Leona‘’d
dialog: have a heart attack if I didn't
dialog: invite you to move in.
speaker_heading: . HiuLaRyY
dialog: She lives in Miami. She'd
dialog: never know.
text: CC is opening the door with her key. A drunken WOMAN sits
text: on the step clutching a bottle in a brown paper bag.
dialog: ce
dialog: Hi, Marjorie. How's life
dialog: treating you?
dialog: 21.
text: The drunk falls against the wall, her eyes shut,the bottle
text: still clutched in her hand. CC shoves some money in her
dialog: pocket.
speaker_heading: cc
text: Cut down on the gasoline,
dialog: Marge, It's bad for the
dialog: complexion.
text: Cc quickly climbs over the drunk and enters the biilding.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (staring at drunk)
dialog: She could be dead.
dialog: ce
dialog: (holding door,
dialog: cheerful) ‘
dialog: Nah. I£ she was dead she
text: would have dropped the bottle.
text: Hillary looks at her with a strained smile, then gingerly
text: climbs over the drunk and enters the building.
speaker_heading: BLACK SCREEN
text: We hear a door opening and then a light snaps on.
scene_heading: INT. .cC'S LOFT - NIGHT ,
text: Hillary and CC walk in and drop the luggage on the floor.
dialog: ce
dialog: (bright)
dialog: So? What do you think?
text: Hillary slowly looks around the room which, except for a
text: few rudimentary pieces of furniture and a storm of dis-
text: carded clothes, is bare and gives the impression it is in
text: a bombed-out building. A jerry-built kitchen stretches
text: along a wall beneath a row of large, dirty, uncurtained
text: windows looking out on the empty street. Hillary suddenly
text: bursts into tears.
dialog: ce
dialog: (offended)
dialog: Hey: So it's not Buck-
dialog: ingham Palace: It's home
dialog: to me:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (wiping away
dialog: tears, excited)
dialog: You don't understand: I'm
dialog: erying because I'm happy:
dialog: It just hit me I'm finally
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: HILLARY (cont'd.)
dialog: involved in real life, not
dialog: the sanitized version you
dialog: get on Beacon Hill:
dialog: (pacing room)
dialog: Do you realize for the first
dialog: time in my life I'm free?:
dialog: For the first time I'm doing
dialog: exactly what I want to do ra~
dialog: ther than what I‘ve been train-
dialog: ed to do?! I feel like scream~
text: ing and shouting free at last,
dialog: free at last, thank God Almighty
dialog: I'm free at last:
text: ccC stares at her shining face.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Are you like this all the
dialog: time..?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: No.
text: CC smiles sweetly as she kicks the door shut.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Good. Then you can stay.
scene_heading: INT, COPY SHOP = MID-TOWN - DAY
text: It is packed with PEOPLE. CC and the Manager, a mean-
text: looking fat WOMAN in late middle-age, are behind the coun-
text: ter frantically helping customers.
dialog: ce
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: I'm sorry, sir, but I can't
dialog: fit all that on one rubber
dialog: stamp.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: But it has to be on one
dialog: acemp: Why can't you fit
dialog: it
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (acid)
dialog: Because you would either need
dialog: - a microscope to read the print
dialog: or we'd have to order a stamp
dialog: so huge it would take a hydrau-
dialog: lic lift to pick it up:
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: cc (cont 'd.)
dialog: (tossing order form
dialog: at him)
dialog: Think it over and come back
dialog: when you've made up your little
dialog: mind: Next:
text: A telephone rings as the man throws the form on the floor
text: and storms out. As the manager answers the phone, a little
text: MAN in a raincoat appears.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: I want to use the color copier.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: Go away or I'll call the cops.
speaker_heading: MAN .
dialog: I have a right to use it:
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: cc: Telephone:
dialog: ce
dialog: I have to call back.
dialog: (to man) .
dialog: I've told you a hundred times
dialog: already, it's against the law
dialog: to even have those pictures much
dialog: less copy them:
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: You can't call back.
dialog: ec
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: It's your roommate, She's in
dialog: jail and needs you to bail her
dialog: out.
text: cc stares at her.
scene_heading: INT. HOLDING TANK - POLICE STATION = DAY
text: It is packed with scurilous-locking WOMEN ~ hookers,
text: thieves, fight victims, etc. In one corner, a GROUP
text: of antiewar types huddle anxiously together. While she
text: talks, Hillary walks amongst the unwashed handing out
text: leaflets featuring her smiling face beneath a headline
scene_heading: reading “VOTE DEMOCRATIC = HILLARY WHITNEY FOR CITY COUNCIL,
text: 16TH DISTRICT.” Hillary's conservative clothes are gone
text: and she is now dressed in army surplus fatigues, leyers of
text: sweaters and scarves, etc. In spite of it all, she still
dialog: 24.
text: looks as if she belongs on the mver of Vogue. The down-
text: trodden accept the leaflets with docile, blank faces.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (passionate, in-
dialog: spiring)
dialog: You've got to vote, you've
dialog: got to tell your friends
dialog: to vote. This city doesn't
dialog: just belong to Wall Street
dialog: and Fifth Avenue, it belongs
dialog: to you too and
dialog: I promise once
dialog: I'm on the city council things
dialog: will change - free daycare cen-
dialog: ters, youth programs, wor
dialog: study programs for the under-
dialog: priviledged, small business in-
dialog: centives for deprived communities -
dialog: my aim is to represent the inter-
dialog: ests of everyone in this district,
dialog: not just the...
text: A bored-looking COP has opened the cell door. Everyone
text: looks up anxiously, except Hillary, who is busy with her
dialog: speech. .
dialog: cop , .
dialog: (eutting in)
dialog: Whitney: H. Whitney:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (turning)
dialog: Yes?
dialog: cop
dialog: You're out.
scene_heading: INT, POLICE STATION - DAY
text: As the now exasperated-looking cop leads Hillary and cc
text: to the front desk Hillary practically assaults him.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Nobody read re my rights
dialog: and I was held without chéagus:
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Shut-up, lady.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I will not shut-up:
dialog: ec
text: He has a gun. Shut-up.
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: o~ HILLARY
dialog: (to cop)
dialog: I just happen to be running
dialog: for e¢ity council in this
dialog: @istrict and you haven't heard
dialog: the last of this, you fascist
dialog: pig:
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Anybody can run for city coun-
dialog: ¢il and if you don't shut~-up
dialog: you're going back in the tank:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: ' Oh, yeah? On what charge?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: ) Resisting release:
dialog: (grabbing her arm)
dialog: | Let's go!
text: : She starts pulling.Hillary down the hall. Hillary yanks
text: her arm away but keeps walking, pulling a cigarette out
text: of her pocket.
speaker_heading: as HILLARY
dialog: (lighting up)
dialog: God, what an experience:
dialog: First my civil rights were
text: violated and then a hooker
dialog: threatened to stab me with
dialog: , a bobby pin if I didn't give
dialog: . - her my last cigarette: Naturally,
dialog: : I refused:
text: CC looks at her as if she is insane.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: What is with you?: First
dialog: you quit your low-paying job
dialog: with the ACLU to run for
dialog: some cockamamey political
text: office in a district full of
dialog: congenital idiots and killers,
dialog: and now you have to go to jail
dialog: too?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I didn't do it on purpose. .
dialog: I was on a run-of-the-mill
dialog: o~ . anti-war march when a few zea-
dialog: lots started throwing bottles
dialog: at the cops: Do you think I
dialog: like having tear gas bombs thrown
dialog: in my face?
dialog: Yes. I do.
text: She walks out. Hillary goes after her. 26.
scene_heading: *™ EXT, POLICE STATION - DAY _ ,
text: As they start down the steps:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Going back to work?
dialog: ce
dialog: I was fired.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I'm retiring the last of my
dialog: eredit cards today.
dialog: ce
dialog: I can hardly hold back my
dialog: i tears.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What do you say we send it
dialog: off in style?
text: oo Cc leoks at her with sudden interest.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Lunch and a facial?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
text: Lunch, a facial and Bendels.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (delighted)
dialog: Now you're talking:
text: As they start off down the street arm in arm, Hillary
text: suddenly looks at her curiously.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Don't you care about any of
dialog: this stuff?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: What stuff?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What's going on in the world.
dialog: The injustices, the wrongs,
dialog: ro . the problems.
dialog: ec
dialog: Sure I do. We just have a
dialog: . Gifferent approach te things,
dialog: that's all. :
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What do you mean?
dialog: ec
dialog: I mean you want to change
dialog: the world.
dialog: (looks at her)
dialog: I want to rule it.
scene_heading: INT. -VW BUG - LOWER EAST SIDE - MORNING
text: Hillary is behind the wheel and driving like a maniac,
text: leaning on the horn, practically going up on curbs to pass
text: people, etc. We see campaign posters and leaflets covering
text: the back seat, CC is in the passenger seat, gripping the
text: dashboard, dressed in a rabbit costume complete with rubber
text: muzzle, teeth and plastic whiskers.
dialog: 
dialog: ce
dialog: After all I've done for you,
dialog: you're complaining?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: No, I'm just saying you al-
dialog: ways take these jobs when I'm
text: in a rush to be somewhere.
dialog: (yelling out window)
dialog: What are you doing, asshole?
dialog: Taking your vacation at the
dialog: interesection?
text: She skids to a halt in front of a tenement building, just
text: missing a garbage truck.
dialog: ce
dialog: (sort, horrified)
dialog: You must have gotten your
text: license out of a cereal box.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Do you want me to wait?
text: cc turns to her and snaps the muzzle against her face.
dialog: ec
dialog: What do you think?
text: As she speaks, Hillary grabs a bunch of envelopes and leaf-
text: lets and starts stuffing.
speaker_heading: HILLARY ,
dialog: Then you'd better step on
dialog: it. I'm speaking at a rent
dialog: strike raliy in an hour.
dialog: 27A.
text: cc stares at her as if she is a rare species of bird,
text: then quickly jumps out of the car, slams the door
text: and runs into the building.
scene_heading: INT. TENEMENT ~ MORNING
text: CC walks past a couple of doors in the dark, seedy corri-
text: dor, the muzzle sitting on her head, checking apartment
text: numbers. She stops in front of a door and rings the bell,
text: then slips the muzzle on her face. Inside we hear a couple
text: of crashes, a number of locks being undone and the door is
text: finally pulled open by JOHN CHASE, an extremely attractive,
text: intense-looking man in his early thirties who looks as if
text: he just woke up from a sound sleep after a very late night.
text: He is barefoot and wearing hastily pulled on jeans and t-
text: shirt. She smiles brightly.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Good morning: TI have a
dialog: birthday message for you
dialog: from your darling bunny
dialog: girl Barbara: .
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: . (@azed, horrified)
dialog: My what..?
dialog: ce
dialog: ’ I don't make the stuff .
dialog: up, pal. I just deliver it.
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Happy birthday to you
dialog: happy birthday to you
dialog: happy birthday darling bunny boy
dialog: . happy birthday to you.
text: Without a second's hesitation, she begins to sing “CRAZY
text: BE CALLS ME.“ John listens, transfixed by her lovely voice,
text: then when she finishes he leans against the wall.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: You have a great voice.
text: CC smiles flirtateously as she removes the bunny muzzle.
dialog: ec
dialog: Do you really think so?
dialog: (light laugh)
dialog: Of course I'm not the type
dialog: to believe flattery, but
dialog: some critics have even call-
dialog: ed me a genius.
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (amused)
dialog: Oh, I see. You're a pro.
dialog: ce
dialog: (grand)
dialog: My last engagement was in
dialog: a divine little supper club
dialog: in mid-town called The Dew
dialog: Drop Inn.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: The what?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (quick)
dialog: Never mind.
dialog: (holding out hand,
dialog: flirtaeous smile)
dialog: cc Bloom.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (shaking it)
dialog: John Chase. So, CC Bloom,
dialog: where are you appearing now?
dialog: ec
dialog: (evasive)
dialog: I'm in between club dates.
dialog: I'm at a turning point in
dialog: my career, you know? And
dialog: I have to be very, very selec-
dialog: tive.
text: There is an awkward pause.
speaker_heading: . JOHN
dialog: Well. Nice meeting you, CC.
text: CC looks at him with a slightly desperate look on her face,
text: wanting to prolong the moment.
dialog: ce “
dialog: Yeah...nice meeting you...
text: She hesitates, then with a little, reluctant wave turns
text: and starts walking away, trying to think of some reason
text: to turn back. John is watching her with a thoughtful
text: expression on his face.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: Wait a minute.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (turning, excited)
dialog: I'm free tonight and all weekend:
dialog: 29.
text: He ignores her remark as he walks over to her.
text: She stares at
text: She stares at
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Have you ever acted?
dialog: ce
dialog: (startled)
dialog: No. . Why?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I run a little repertory com-
dialog: pany and we need someone with
dialog: @ strong voice. Interested in
dialog: auditioning?
dialog: ce
dialog: (shrugging),
dialog: Well...I don't know...what 's
dialog: the name of the company?
speaker_heading: JOHN :
dialog: The East Side Players.
dialog: hin.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Are you serious? The company
dialog: that sends all those shows
dialog: to Broadway?
dialog: (he nods; astonished)
dialog: Jesus. And you still live in
dialog: a@ place like this?
dialog: (sudden, panicky)
dialog: Forget it. I'm just a singer,
dialog: you know? JI don't know the first
dialog: thing about...
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: You don't have to. You're ob-
dialog: viously talented...
dialog: ce
dialog: (thrilled)
dialog: You think so0..?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: You've got great natural tim-
dialog: ing and you can learn the rest.
dialog: Anyway, it's just an audition.
dialog: All either one of us has to lose
dialog: is a little time,
text: him adoringly, falling in love.
dialog: ec
dialog: When?
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Next Fraday at
text: 3:00 sharp.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft, thrilled)
dialog: You know, the second I saw
dialog: you in that doorway I had
dialog: a feeling we would...
text: At that moment, the street door opens and Hillary walks in.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: If you want me to drive
dialog: you home, CC we have to
dialog: leave now:
text: cc turns to her with a radiant smile.
dialog: ce
dialog: John Chase, my roommate,
dialog: Hillary Whitney.
text: When Hillary's eyes meet John's it is electrifying for both.
text: They stare at each other, then Hillary quickly walks for-
text: ward and holds out her hand with an awkward smile.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Hello. Sorry to be s0
dialog: abrupt, but I'm running
text: late for an appointment.
text: They shake hands, transfixed by one another.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: An audition..?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: An audition. .?
dialog: (sudden, laugh)
dialog: Oh, no! I'm not a performer.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: The way ,ou look...I just
dialog: assumed...
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (handing him a leaflet)
dialog: I'm running for city council.
speaker_heading: | JOHN
dialog: I'll vote for you.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Wrong district.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: My loss. 31.
dialog: ce
dialog: (sudden, shrill)
dialog: Isn't it time to get moving,
dialog: dear?!
text: Hillary quickly glances at her, ther looks back at John
text: as she starts edging out the door after CC,
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: , Goodbye, John, Nice meeting
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Very nice meeting you.
text: The door bangs shut.
scene_heading: EXT. TENEMENT BUILDING - DAY
text: As CC and Hillary descend the stairs, Hillary glances at
text: her with excitement.
speaker_heading: HILLARY .
dialog: He's very attractive, isn't
dialog: he?
dialog: ec:
dialog: (sullen)
dialog: I suppose, if you like
dialog: the type.
text: She flops into the car and pulls the door shut.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - DAY
text: As Hillary climbs in and starts the engine:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I wonder why that woman
dialog: calls him her darling bunny
dialog: boy. .
text: cc turns to look at her, their eyes lock for a moment,
text: then CC turns away.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft, intrigued)
dialog: Oh. I see,
scene_heading: Int. EAST SIDE THEATER - ONSTAGE - DAY
text: It is in an abandoned church on the lower east side.
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: cc
text: is finishing up a reading from Streetcar Named Desire.
dialog: She is surprisingly good as Blanche DuBois except she
text: plays her as a girl from The Bronx. John sits watching
text: her in wonder.
dialog: ce
text: He'd stuck a revolver into
dialog: his mouth and fired: so that
dialog: the back of his head had been -
dialog: blown away! It was because on
text: the dance floor - unable to stop
dialog: myself - I'd suddenly said “I
dialog: know! I saw! You disgust me."
dialog: And then the searchlight which
dialog: had been turned on the world
dialog: was turned off again and never
dialog: for one moment since has there
dialog: been any light stronge than this
dialog: kitchen candle...
text: There is a pause, then she looks up anxiously and slowly
text: lowers the script. John stares at her.
dialog: ce,
dialog: So..?
speaker_heading: * JOHN
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Blanche Dubois is from the
dialog: South. ce
dialog: (tough, belligerent)
dialog: Yeah? So? I'm from The Bronx:
dialog: 32, A.
scene_heading: INT. LOFT BATHROOM = DAY
text: Sunlight streams through dirty windows. In theix under-
text: wear, CC and Hillary are dying their hair. CC is rinsing
text: hers in the sink and Hillary is drying hers with a blow-
dialog: dryer.
dialog: ee
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: Well, no, it's not a big
dialog: part, I only have four lines,
dialog: « but each one is dense with
dialog: meaning.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: John called me yesterday.
text: cc, who is drying her hair with a towel, @arts her a look
dialog: of surprise.
dialog: ec
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: For lunch, but I had to speak
dialog: to the chamber of commerce.
dialog: (pause, casual)
dialog: Is he still with the set de-
dialog: signer?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (casual)
dialog: Nah. He dumped her for &
text: dancer in A Chorus Line.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: How'd she taxe it?
dialog: ec .
dialog: (with relish)
dialog: Sui-i-cidal: He's absolutely
dialog: heartless when it comes to
dialog: women.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft, uneasy)
dialog: Really. :
text: CC drops the towel, shakes her hair out and looks at
text: Hillary expectantly. Her mane is now blonde.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Wnat do you think?
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: It's fabulous:
dialog: (patting hair,
dialog: excited)
dialog: What do you think of mine?
speaker_heading: cc
text: It's the same color.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What?
text: cc turns her to face the mirror.
dialog: ce
dialog: You just spent the last two
dialog: hours dying your hair ex-
text: actly the same color.
scene_heading: INT. EAST SIDE THEATER - LOUNGE ~ DAY
text: CC sits on a broken=-down couch in the dusty room sipping
text: coffee and reading a script.
text: Through an open door-
text: way leading into the main part of the theater we hear a pi-
text: ano playing and see a play being rehearsed. CC suddenly
text: slams the script shut and walks off down a hall with @ set,
text: belligerent expression.on her face.
scene_heading: INT, HALLWAY - DAY
text: CC stops in the doorway of a small, cluttered office. John
text: is at the desk paying bills.
dialog: ce
dialog: I've been cast as a pri-
text: gon guard on death row.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (looking up)
dialog: I know. I did the casting.
dialog: ce
dialog: I thought I'd have a bigger
dialog: part.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Not yet.
dialog: ce
dialog: But this isn't me.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Act like it is.
dialog: 34.
text: ~~ : She stares at him, he stares back, then she walks out of
text: the room with an exasperated, defeated sigh. He goes
text: back to his bills.
scene_heading: INT. SEEDY LAUNDROMAT - LATE NIGHT
text: The place is empty except for CC, who is stretched out on
text: a bench staring at the ceiling, and Hillary, who is re-
text: moving things from a dryer and folding then.
dialog: ce
dialog: Tell me the truth. I mean
dialog: really, really tell me the
dialog: truth.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Do you think I'm very tal-
dialog: ented or just moderately
dialog: talented? :
speaker_heading: i HILLARY
dialog: , . (faint sigh)
dialog: I think you're very talented,
dialog: Cc. I've told you that at
dialog: , least eight million times.
dialog: 
dialog: , ce
dialog: . - I know, but maybe you're
dialog: just being nice. How do
dialog: I know you mean it and
dialog: ‘ that you're not just being
dialog: nice?
dialog: (silence)
dialog: Do you mean it?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: Yes: I mean it!
dialog: ec
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: He thinks I'm very talented
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (folding, casual)
dialog: How is he? Still with the
dialog: erying waitress?
dialog: ce
dialog: No. She entered an Ashran
dialog: when he started seeing the
text: gymnast.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: ce (cont'd.)
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Did he ever call you again?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: No. My schedule's so tight
dialog: I said I'd call him.
dialog: (sudden)
text: The girl who entered the Ashram,
dialog: was she religious?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: No.
dialog: (leoking at her)
text: E-motionally shattered.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: _ BY him?
dialog: ce
dialog: Uh-huh.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Are you going to do it?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What?
dialog: ce
dialog: Call him.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I don't know.
text: They sink back into their own thoughts as Hillary folds,
text: then CC turns to look at her.
dialog: ee
dialog: I'll never forget this
dialog: for as long as I live.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: You doing my laundry for
dialog: me. I hate doing laundry
dialog: more than anything on earth
dialog: and this is the kindest thing
dialog: anyone has ever done for me,
dialog: (looking back at
dialog: ceiling, thoughtful)
dialog: A man would never do this for
dialog: you no matter how much he loved
dialog: you.
dialog: 36.
scene_heading: INT. CC AND HILLARY'S LOFT - NIGHT
text: A seraggly, haphazardly decorated Christmas tree with a
text: few wrapped presents under it provides the only light.
text: The loft has been transformed by Hillary into @ place
text: where people live. Her sleeping area has prints on the
text: wall, lush plants, filled bookshelves, cluttered desk
text: over which hangs evidence of her political campaign, news-
dialog: paper clippings, posters, photographs, etc. CC and Hillary
text: are in their beds, falling asleep.
speaker_heading: HILLARY/CC
dialog: (singing softly)
text: Away in a manger
dialog: No crib for a bed
dialog: the Little Lord Jesus
dialog: Lay down his sweet head
text: The stars in the sky
text: Looking down where he lay
dialog: The little lord Jesus
text: Asleep in the hay.
text: They both stare dreamily at the tree through half-closed
dialog: eyes.
speaker_heading: HILLARY ,
dialog: How about Good King Wenceslaus?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Not tonight, Hill.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Okay.
dialog: (shutting eyes)
dialog: Goea night, CC.
dialog: ce
dialog: (drifting off)
dialog: Goodnight, Hillary
text: The Christmas lights blink on and off in the dark as their
text: breathing deepens into sleep.
scene_heading: INT, RAPPAPORT'S DAIRY RESTAURANT - LOWER EAST SIDE - DAY
text: The place is packed with a lunch crowd. CC sits alone at
text: a window table eating and reading a script. As John
text: passes the window he knocks on it, then a moment later he
text: slips into the seat across from her.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: So. What do you think of
dialog: the new play? Brilliant,
dialog: isn't it?
dialog: 37.
dialog: ce
dialog: (indifferent)
dialog: Yeah. Revolutionary. What
dialog: do I play? A piece of scenery?
speaker_heading: JOHN
text: One of the two leads.
text: She stares at him, then shakes her head,
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I'm sorry, but I couldn't
dialog: possibly do that.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (slight laugh)
dialog: What?
dialog: [a
dialog: It's out of the question.
text: He reaches across and takes her hands reassuringly.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I promise you, CC. You
dialog: ean't fail.
dialog: ce
dialog: (startled)
dialog: Pail? Of course I can't
dialog: fail. I know that.
text: He drops her hands with irritation.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Then what the hell is the
dialog: problem?
text: She leans toward him.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (emotional,
dialog: frightened)
dialog: If I do that, everything
dialog: will change. Forever. I
dialog: know it. Right now I feel
dialog: like I'm remembering me hav-
dialog: ing this conversation with
dialog: you. I don't want things to
dialog: change that much. I don't want
dialog: to leave things behind. It's
dialog: lore ly.
text: John stares at her, then stands up.
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (disgusted)
dialog: What a lot of self-in-
dialog: dulgent crap.
dialog: (teugh)
dialog: You know the saying better
dialog: lueky than good? You were
dialog: born with the kind of talent
dialog: that will always have some-
dialog: place to go. That's very lucky.
dialog: Don't ask me to feel sorry for
dialog: you for being lucky.
text: He turns and walks out of the restaurant. She watches
text: him go with an anxious expression on her face, then looks
text: down at the script as if it is going to attack her. She
text: finally takes a deep breath and as she opens it to read
text: ‘she suddenly blesses herself, then throwg up her hand in
text: exasperation.
dialog: ce
dialog: (mutter)
dialog: What are you doing?:
dialog: You're a Jew:
text: She nervousiy flips through the pages, pausing on one
text: near the end. As she reads, she unconsciosly begins to
text: hum a tune under her breath. It turns into:
scene_heading: INT. EAST SIDE THEATER - ONSTAGE - NIGHT
text: The show is similar to The Rocky Horror Show - wildly made-
text: up and costumed, CC sings the final song, a show-stopper,
text: whieh includes the entire chorus. When the song ends, the
text: theater ‘suddenly goes completely dark, then the houselights
text: go up and the audience, composed primarily of downtown
text: types and a sprinkling of critics, goes crazy. The entire
text: company is assembled onstage, with CC at the center of the
text: line. As the applause continues undiminished, they bow
text: deeply, then as CC straightens up CAMERA MOVES IN CLOSE ON
text: HER. The actors on eitherside of her gently prod her for-
text: ward so she is standing alone, just in front of the line,
text: and the applause turns into cheers and a standing ovation.
text: She suddenly breaks into a smile, her face lit with wild
text: excitement and triumph. CC is finally on her way.
speaker_heading: MATCH SHOT
dialog: . 39.
scene_heading: INT. EAST SIDE THEATER - BACKSTAGE ~ NIGHT
text: A large, noisy party is underway. CLOSE ON CC. Still in
text: costume and make-up, she is trying to appear happy in spite
text: of the fact that she is utterly miserable.
dialog: ce
dialog: (stiff smile)
dialog: Happy? I'm out of my mine
dialog: with happiness: This is
dialog: the most wonderful night of
dialog: my life:
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK to include the party and Hillary, who
text: seems to be oblivious to CC's state.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (warm, excited)
dialog: When you first appeared I
dialog: actually cried. I couldn't .
dialog: help it. You were like a
dialog: stranger up there, a...
text: John suddenly appears with a bottle of champagne.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (cutting in, happy)
dialog: Refills anyone? :
text: Hillary quickly turns and smiles brilliantly at him.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (holding out glass)
dialog: You're a genius: Where did
dialog: you find more champagne?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: {acid)
text: In the office where he put
dialog: the fifteen cases he bought
dialog: this afternoon. They taught
dialog: him how to do it at Yale.
text: John and Hillary are only aware of each other.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (to Hillary)
dialog: You know, it's the strangest
dialog: thing, but I can't shake the
dialog: feeling that I know you well.
speaker_heading: : HILLARY
dialog: I know, I feel the same way
dialog: about you. I wonder why?
dialog: 40.
dialog: ec
dialog: That's obvious: You must
dialog: have met in a former life:
dialog: (bitter laugh)
dialog: I'm sure it has nothing to
dialog: do with the fact that [ talk
dialog: about both of you incessantly.
text: John and Hillary look at her with puzzled frowns, then John
text: turns back to Hillary.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: How's the campaign going?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Well, it's amazing. I was
dialog: way behind but the latest
dialog: poll shows me running even!
dialog: I have a good chance of
dialog: winning:
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (intense)
dialog: I really respect what you're
dialog: doing, you know? It makes
dialog: all this, the theater, art,
dialog: seem trivial somehow. Having
dialog: a deep social committment
dialog: makes...
text: CC suddenly shoves her glass in front of his face.
dialog: ce
dialog: (hard)
dialog: Me thirsty: More cham-
dialog: pagne, please.
text: He looks. at her as if she is a wild animal as he refills
text: her glass. At that moment, .
text: an ACTOR appears, wearing his coat and carry-
text: ing a great stack of newspapers.
speaker_heading: ACTOR *
dialog: Okay, everybody, this is it:
text: As he tosses the papers on a chair ., PEOPLE rip them up,
dialog: opening to the reviews, including CC and John, everything
text: else temporarily forgotten. Several people crush around
text: each paper, reading avidly over one another's shoulders,
text: etc. An actors' head snaps up.
speaker_heading: ACTOR
dialog: The Voice said it's the
dialog: musical of the decade:
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (reading)
dialog: We got a rave from the News:
text: John looks up from the New York Times.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: John Simon said it was
dialog: fresh.
dialog: (scattered laughter)
dialog: He also made special men-
dialog: tion of CC Bloom's perfor-
dialog: mance, which he called promis-
dialog: ing.
dialog: (John lifts his
dialog: glass)
dialog: To a great playwright and
dialog: a@ great company:
text: Cheers, everyone drinks.
speaker_heading: . ACTOR
dialog: To a long run:
text: More cheers and drinking.
dialog: ce
dialog: And to a great theater
dialog: director:
text: As she turns to drink to John her face falls. He is
text: leading Hillary away from the others, engaged in inti-
text: mate conversation. CC looks completely heartbroken as
text: she downs her champagne in one desperate swallow.
scene_heading: EXT. CC AND HILLARY'S LOFT - DAWN
text: A squad car cruises along the deserted street and pulls
text: to a halt in front of the loft. The door opens and CC
text: stumbles out dressed in the same clothes, but now soaking
text: wet and carrying her shoes, She has sodden confetti and
text: streamers in her hair, which is matted and dripping, her
text: stockings are shredded and her make-up is smeared. She
text: is carrying her coat.
dialog: ce
dialog: (shrill)
dialog: I don't have to sleep
dialog: anything off and I'm
dialog: telling you for the last
dialog: time I wasn't the ring-
dialog: leader:
text: fhe slams the police car deor shut and stumbles into the
dialog: oft.
dialog: 42.
scene_heading: INT. LOFT - DAWN -
text: Hillary is curled up in a chair near the window, wrapped
text: in a blanket, drinking coffee and lost in her own, very
text: happy thoughts as we hear a few crashes in the hallway.
text: The locks on the door are thrown and CC walks in. Hillary
text: sits up in shock.
speaker_heading: BILLARY
dialog: My God: What happened to
dialog: you?:
text: cc heads for her sleeping area without looking at Hillary.
dialog: ec
dialog: (flat)
dialog: Some people and I went
dialog: ‘for a swim in the Central
dialog: Park Boating Pond.
text: Hillary hesitates, then gets up, wraps the bianket around
text: herself and follows cc.
scene_heading: INT. CC'S SLEEPING AREA - DAWN
text: CC is getting out of her wet clothes and into a robe when
text: Hillary walks in.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Don't you want to know what
dialog: happened to me?
text: CC gives her a quick glance, then turns away as she starts
text: removing her smeared make-up.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (flat)
dialog: Wnat happened to you?
text: Hillary sinks down onto her bed.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Everything. I just spent
dialog: the most wonderful night of
dialog: my life.
text: CC keeps her face turned away.
dialog: ec
dialog: (quick, low)
dialog: With John?
text: Hillary leans back and shuts her eyes.
dialog: 43..
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (dreamy)
dialog: With John. oh, CC, it was
dialog: so incredibly romantic. We
dialog: got & room at the Plaza, had
dialog: @ magnum of champagne sent up
dialog: «He's an incredible lover,
dialog: we didn't sleep all...
dialog: ce
dialog: (sudden, harsh)
dialog: Hand me that brash, will you?
text: Hillary sits up, finds the brush on the bedside table and
text: hands it to CC. CC quickly starts brushing her hair, her
text: back carefully turned to Hillary.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: {sudden, light)
dialog: So did the two of you fail
dialog: in love?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I don't know...we just met
dialog: really... °
dialog: (soft, happy)
dialog: We will.
text: cc is now brushing her hair very, very hard.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Oh, by the way, my father's
dialog: got some bug and I have to
dialog: go to Boston for a couple of
dialog: days. Will you water my plants
dialog: while I'm gone?
text: CC hesitates in her brushing, her back turned, then she
text: turns to look at Hillary, in torment. She finally sinks
text: down into a chair with a sigh, pulling confetti out of
text: her hair dejectedly.
dialog: ec
dialog: Oh, sure. We're friends,
dialog: aren't we,.?
scene_heading: INT. LOFT - MORNING
text: Wearing a robe and dark glasses, CC waters Hillary's lush
dialog: plants.
scene_heading: INT. RAPPAPORT'S DAIRY RESTAURANT - DAY
text: CC and John are having lunch in the crowded restaurant.
dialog: ce
dialog: . I'm telling you, thi
dialog: are changin ¥ For ne? “Some-
dialog: body asked for my autograph:
dialog: 44,
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: You were recognized by
dialog: someone in the street?:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Well, no, by the janitor
dialog: who works in the theater
dialog: but, believe me, he's a
dialog: very picky guy.
text: John'leoks away. They eat in silence for a moment, then:
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Any word?
dialog: ce
dialog: About what?
text: He stares at her. She looks oat the window.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (£lat)
dialog: Her father took a turn for
dialog: the worse. She has to stay
dialog: in Boston Longer than ex-
text: pected.
scene_heading: INT. LOFT - MORNING
text: Wearing a robe and dark glasses, CC waters Hillary's plants.
text: They look much less lush. She finds a couple of dead ors
text: and tosses them into the trash.
scene_heading: INT, BEACON HILL HOUSE ~ NIGHT
text: Tne silent house is beautifully decorated with antiques,
text: Morris paper, aubusson carpets, etc. While she avidly reads
text: a letter, Hillary climbs the sta irs to the second floor
text: carrying a dinner tray, CAMERA FOLLOWING.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: I'm sorry you had to drop
dialog: out of the city council race,
dialog: bat don't lose heart. Your
dialog: father will be better soon
dialog: and you can run again.
text: Hillary opens a bedroom door and enters.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: It is dimly lit. She puts down the tray, glances anxiously
text: at the bed where we see a shadowy figure asleep under the
text: covers, then sinks into a chair and goes back to the letter.
dialog: 45.
dialog: ec
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: Did I tell you? There's
dialog: talk of taking the show
dialog: to Broadway: I can't be-
dialog: lieve it: All my dreams
dialog: are coming true:
text: Hillary looks up with a sad, lost face.
scene_heading: INT, ‘THEATER - BACKSTAGE - NIGHT
text: We can hear the audience out front as the orchestra plays
text: the overture. CC emerges from her cubbyhole dressing room
text: and starts walking toward the wings. John appears behind her.
speaker_heading: _JORN
dialog: Where the hell were you
dialog: all day yesterday?
text: He walks with her.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Long Island. — Wny?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I called you about twenty times.
dialog: ce
dialog: Oh, yeah? How come?
text: He stares at her, then laughs slightly in surprise and
dialog: embarrassment.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I guess I missed you.
text: (they stare at
dialog: : each other)
dialog: Want to have dinner again
dialog: after the show?
dialog: ec
text: (soft, thrilled) .
dialog: Yeah. Sure.
text: As she starts to walk away:
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: By the way, any news?
dialog: ec
dialog: (flat, over
dialog: shoulder)
dialog: The funeral was yesterday.
dialog: She has to stay a while
dialog: longer to settle the estate
text: with her father's lawyer.
dialog: 46.
scene_heading: INT. CC'S LOFT - MORNING
text: Wearing @ robe and dark glasses, she fills a kettle with
text: water and walks over to Hillary's plants. They are dead,
dialog: ec
dialog: (sad sigh)
dialog: Suicide.
text: She puts the kettle down and climbs back into bed where
text: she resumes reading a letter.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (v.0.) .
dialog: Michael wasn't just my
dialog: father's lawyer, he was the
dialog: son my father never had and
dialog: in my father's final days it
dialog: gave him great joy to see us
dialog: together. The ceremoney was
dialog: civil and our wedding recep-
dialog: tion small, but it was lovely.
dialog: The only flaw was your absence,
dialog: but I understand the show must
dialog: go on. By the way, how's John?
dialog: Do you see much of him socially?
scene_heading: INT. JOHN'S BEDROOM - DAWN
text: First light filters in through the open windows along with
text: the occasional metallic crash from garbage being collected.
text: A fan turns overhead and John is under a sheet, fast asleep,
text: his arms around CC, who is wide awake and staring into space.
text: She finally turns to him.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: dohn...?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Mmmm...
dialog: ec
dialog: Last night. When we were
dialog: making love. Did you say you
dialog: loved me?
text: Pause. John's eyes open.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: What?
dialog: ce
dialog: I thought I heard you say
dialog: you loved me. Did you?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Yes,
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Is that usual?
dialog: -46A,
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: What do you mean?
dialog: ec
dialog: Do you say it to everyone?
dialog: Is it part of your routine?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I don't have a routine and
dialog: I haven't said it to anyone
dialog: in ten years.
dialog: ce
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: Is that true?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (offended)
dialog: I may be a womanizer, CC,
dialog: I'm not a liar.
text: She stares at him,then slowly begins to smile.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (warm, happy)
dialog: Oh, good, because I just
dialog: had the most wonderful idea.
speaker_heading: . JOHN
dialog: (warm, happy)
dialog: Oh, yeah? What's that?
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK CITY HALL - INDIAN SUMMER DAY
text: CC, looking ecstatic, is standing in front of a JUDGE,
text: wearing @ thirties yachting suit and clutching a small
text: bouquet. John, looking panicky, stands next to her dressed
text: in a summer suit and tie. They are flanked by TWO WITNESSES
text: they dragged in off the street.
speaker_heading: JUIGE
dialog: By the power vested in me
dialog: by the State of New York
dialog: I now pronounce you man and
dialog: wife.
text: cc and John slowly turn to look at each other, then CC
text: suddenly slaps him hard in the face,
speaker_heading: JCHN
dialog: What the hell did you do
dialog: that for?:
dialog: ec
dialog: (in tears)
dialog: Because this is the happiest
dialog: manent of my entire life and
dialog: I never want you to forget it!
dialog: 
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: INT. BOSTON SHUTTLE DEPARTURE LOUNGE - LA GUARDIA AIRPORT -
scene_heading: NIGHT - THE PRESENT
text: It is empty except for a few trapped BUSINESSMEN asleep
text: in chairs. Wrapped in her fur coat, CC stands at the
text: window gazing out at the airfield, which is shrouded by
text: a deep blanket of snow. The snow is still falling heavily.
text: She turns and walks past the chairs up to the desk where
text: a lone ATTENDANT is reading.
dialog: . cc
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: Any change?
dialog: (reading, shaking
dialog: head)
dialog: Absolutely nothing's tak-
dialog: ing off, not even private
dialog: planes:
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
dialog: (bored, reading)
dialog: That's right.
text: She sighs with exasperation and despair, then starts back
text: to the window. As she passes one of the sleeping business—
text: men, she notices the headline at the top of & newspaper
text: section which is spread over his face. It reads "GERSHWIN
text: IN BLOOM = CC triumphs in Carnegie Hall." She snatches
text: up the paper and starts reading the review. He moans and
text: she pats his shoulder comfortingly, he smiles, then she
text: unceremoniously drops the paper back over his face and re-
text: turns to her post by the window. She stares back out at
text: the snow with an anxious face, her forehead pressed against
text: the glass. CAMERA MOVES IN ON CC'S FACE.
scene_heading: EXT. BROADWAY - DAY
text: CLOSE ON HILLARY'S FACE AT EXACTLY THE SAME ANGLE. She is
text: staring up at something with a strange intensity, complete
text: ly lost in her own thoughts. CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK to
text: take in the heavy traffic, the CROWDS and finally an enor-
text: mous billboard showing CC as her character in the show from
text: the East Side Theater, which has moved to Broadway, It
text: is SRO. People shove past her, knocking her about a bit, ~
text: but she is oblivious to everything but the billboard and
text: her thoughts. She is dressed very conservatively. Her
text: husband, MICHAEL HAMILTON, a handsome man in his early
text: thirties, also very conservatively dressed, is standing
text: next to a taxi with the door open.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Hillary:
dialog: (no response)
dialog: Hillary, wake up: I've got
dialog: a taxi:
dialog: 48.
text: She comes to with a jolt.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Sorry, Michael:
text: She quickly climbs into the cab and he climbs in after her.
text: As it pulls away from the curb, we see that the license
text: plate has 1974 stickers.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST - DAY
text: CAMERA FOLLOWS THE TAXI as it cruises through traffic and
text: finally pulls to a halt in front of an old, elegant build-
text: ing. Hillary and Michael climb out of the cab and enter
text: the building. She takes in her surroundings with a tense,
text: guarded lock on her face.
scene_heading: INT. CC AND JOHN'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY - DAY
text: The place has clearly been put together by a decorator
text: and although tasteful it has a sterile quality to it.
text: Everything is overdone, expensive and new. Wearing a
text: very trendy designer outfit, CC is attempting to beat back
text: a violently lunging, very large, great dane puppy with a
text: newspaper as she, Michael and Hillary edge their way toward
text: the living room.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (tense, bright)
dialog: I'm so happy to finally
dialog: see you: :
dialog: ec .
dialog: (fierce) :
dialog: Down, Arthur, down:
dialog: (tense, bright)
dialog: I know! It's been ages:
dialog: ‘ (pleading to dog)
dialog: Sit, Arthur, please sit
dialog: honey dog, sit for CC...
dialog: (to Michael)
dialog: It's so exciting to finally
dialog: meet you, Michael.
dialog: (swinging at
text: dog, shrieking)
dialog: Sit you brain-damaged bag
dialog: of bones or I'll have you
dialog: gassed:
text: As the living room door slams shut behind them Arthur hits
text: it with a shuddering crash.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM ~ DAY
text: CC spins around with a brilliant smile on her face.
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Welcome a chez nous:
text: Michael has walked over to the windows ‘overlooking the
text: park as he takes off his coat.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: What a view of the city.
dialog: Spectacular.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (bragging)
dialog: Ours is the only apartment
dialog: with that view from every
dialog: « window. aturally, we pay
dialog: through the nose, but it's
dialog: worth every penny.
dialog: (dramatic)
dialog: I couldn't bear that downtown
text: squalor another minute.
text: Hillary is looking at her with narrowed eyes, but before
text: she can speak John darts into the room and quickly slams
text: the door shut behind him. There is another shuddering crash
text: as the dog's body hits the wood. Hillary turns toward him
text: with excitement.
dialog: Jonn: = ¥
text: John quickly turns and his face lights up with pleasure
text: as he walks over to her. CC is watching them like a hawk.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Hillary. My God.
dialog: (studying her)
dialog: I haven't seen you since
dialog: the night the play opened, have I..?
text: As the memories flood back, Hillary blushes.
speaker_heading: HILLARY"
dialog: (flustered smile)
dialog: No. It's been a long time.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (warm)
dialog: You haven't changed. Still
dialog: as beautiful as ever.
text: As they move to embrace, CC suddenly steps between them,
text: grabs John's arm and yanks him over to Michael, leaving
text: Hillary off balance.
dialog: 50.
dialog: ce
dialog: John! You haven't met
dialog: Michael yet: Michael
dialog: Hamilton, John Chase.
text: As the two men shake hands, CC darts a worried lock at
dialog: Hillary whose
text: they stare at
dialog: sweetly.
dialog: Hillary looks
text: eyes are already on CC. For a split-second
text: each other with mistrust, then CC smiles
dialog: ec
dialog: So what do you think of
dialog: the place, Hill? Not
dialog: exactly the old loft on
dialog: Green Street, is it?
text: around the room cooly.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: No, it's not. It's all
speaker_heading: BOwee
dialog: (sweet smile)
dialog: as.
scene_heading: INT, TAXI - NIGHT
text: Hillary, Michael, CC and John are dressed for a night on
dialog: the town,
speaker_heading: "HILLARY
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: No. I don't miss politics
dialog: at all. Why would I?
dialog: ec
dialog: (insistant)
dialog: Because it meant so much
dialog: to you, that's why.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: It's a little hard to have
dialog: a@ corporate lawyer and a
dialog: liberal politician in the
dialog: game household.
dialog: (pleasant laugh)
dialog: Someone has to do the enter-
dialog: taining.
text: Hillary quickly looks at John.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (strained, bright)
dialog: What have you been doing, John?
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: The usual. Mounting new
dialog: productions and sending them
dialog: on to Broadway. The company's
dialog: had a great year.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (intense, admiring)
dialog: - If I were in the theater
dialog: I'd want to be like you:
dialog: You have an artistic inte-
dialog: grity that seems to be lack-
dialog: ing in... -
text: (darting a look at
dialog: cc)
dialog: »eein Bo many others.
text: cc hasn't missed this. She slowly -turns to her with a
text: brittle smile.
dialog: ec
dialog: So tell me, dear, just. what
dialog: do you do with yourself all
dialog: day now that you're a house-
dialog: wife?
text: Hillary turns to her with cold eyes.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I beg your pardon?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I'd go crazy doing nething:
dialog: (confiding to
dialog: Michael)
dialog: But then I've always been
dialog: a very energetic person.
dialog: (to Hillary)
dialog: Don't you get bored sitt-
dialog: ing around the house all day?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: No, because I don't sit
text: around the house all day.
dialog: I‘m an extremely busy person.
text: The taxi has pulled to a halt in front of Twenty-One.
text: Before the doorman can reach them, Hillary slams the taxi-
text: door open and steps out, her lips a thin line.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET OUTSIDE TWENTY-OSE - NIGHT
text: As they approach and enter the restaurant:
dialog: 52.
dialog: ce
dialog: Doing what?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I beg your parden?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: How do you keep busy?
dialog: Doing what? .
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (tense laugh)
dialog: What is this, CC? The
dialog: Spanish Inquisition?
dialog: co
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: We haven't seen each other
dialog: for awhile. I just want
dialog: to know how she spends her
dialog: time. Is that a crime?
text: He gives her a warning look and she looks away with wounded
dialog: innocence.
scene_heading: INT, TWENTY-ONE - NIGHT
text: As they enter
dialog: Hillary darts
dialog: and check their coats:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (clipped)
dialog: I spend it working on var-
dialog: ious charities, I'm on the
dialog: Board of the Junior League,
dialog: The Stately Homes Preserva-
dialog: tion Society and I'm a docent
text: at the art musuem.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (helpful)
dialog: Don't forget your horticul-
dialog: ture classes.
text: him an irritated look.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Horticulture classes..?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: You may not be aware of it,
dialog: but gardening happens to be
dialog: an art:
dialog: . 53.
text: cc stares at her, then shrugs slightly.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Hey. Who's criticizing.
dialog: The important thing is
dialog: you're happy, right?
text: Hillary takes Michael's arm.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Iam: I am very, very, very
dialog: happy:
text: At that moment, the HEAD WAITER rushes up to CC and John.
speaker_heading: HEAD WAITER
dialog: (fawning)
dialog: Mr. Chase, Miss Bloom:
dialog: We've got your favorite
dialog: table ready for you:
text: As the Head Waiter leads them inside Hillary smiles at no
text: one, clutching Michael's am.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Mery happy:
scene_heading: “INT. CC'S LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON
text: Wearing casual clothes, CC and Hillary sit across from one
text: another with grim faces playing cards. They silently snap
text: up ecards and slap them down.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (slamming down
dialog: hand)
dialog: Gin:
text: She counts CC's points, then while CC rapidly shuffles
text: the cards, Hillary adds them on a pad.
dialog: ec
dialog: Who's winning?
speaker_heading: . HILLARY
dialog: Tt am:
text: ¢¢ starts dealing so hard and fast you can barely see the
text: cards. We hear the front door open and close.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (v.02)
dialog: Anybody home?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (clipped)
dialog: In here: , .
dialog: 54.
text: Without a word to each other, they pick up their cards
text: and start arranging them with sharp snaps. John appears
text: in the doorway and stops with surprise.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: You're still playing cards?:
text: They start playing.
dialog: ce
dialog: Yes.
text: She rapidly rearranges her cards and discards.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: You were playing when I
dialog: left this morning:
dialog: (silence)
dialog: Want to stop and have a
dialog: late lunch?
dialog: ce
dialog: Idon't. Hillary?
speaker_heading: + HILLARY
dialog: No, thanks.
text: He watches them for a moment. They play in a grim, deter-
text: mined silence, as if engaged in a life and death battle.
dialog: ce
dialog: ' (triumphant shriek)
dialog: Gin:
text: As she slams down her cards, he walks out.
scene_heading: INT. HENRI BENDEL'S - DAY
text: cc and Hillary walk through the ground floor of the crowd-
text: ed department store glancing at things as they talk.
dialog: ec
dialog: (using lip-
dialog: stick tester)
dialog: This is a great color on
dialog: me, isn't it?
text: Hillary is checking nail polish colors.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I guess.
dialog: ee ~
dialog: (snapping)
dialog: Well, is it or isn't it?
text: Hillary slams the nail polish down a Little too hard,
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: No, it's not. It makes
dialog: you look like @ corpse. Is
dialog: that specific enough for you?
text: They walk on in silence for a moment, trying to put &
text: damper on their tempers. Hillary picks up @ hat and
text: tries it on.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (sudden, desper-
dialog: ate)
dialog: I've got a great idea! Let's
dialog: get a facial:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (putting hat back)
dialog: Ican't. Michael's meeting
dialog: ends in an hour and we have
dialog: to leave for the airport.
text: cc suddenly picks up a baby's snowsuit made to look like
text: a teddy bear.
dialog: ec
dialog: Oh, Hill, look: Isn't this
dialog: divine?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Very sweet.
dialog: (unguarded)
dialog: I can't wait to have a baby.
dialog: ce
dialog: (emotional)
dialog: Are you doing it soon?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (nappy nod)
dialog: Absolutely. Having children
dialog: is the most important thing
dialog: to me. I'd feel incomplete
dialog: without them.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I know what you mean.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: You do?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: Sure, I do. Way wouldn't I?
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (superior)
dialog: I just.didn't think someone
dialog: like you would care about
dialog: children. You're 80 obsessed
dialog: with your career and ali.
dialog: ce
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: I am not obsessed and just
dialog: because I work doesn't mean
dialog: that “someone like me" doesn't
dialog: want kids:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (sharper)
dialog: Wanting then and caring for
dialog: them properly are two differ-
dialog: ent things. Having children *
dialog: is a full time job.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (hard)
dialog: For some people:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (harder) :
dialog: Yes. The ones who take the
dialog: responsibility seriously and
dialog: don't just have children to
dialog: gratify their overweaning egos:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (exploding)
dialog: What the hell is going on here?:
text: People turn to look at then.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (furious hiss)
dialog: Will you please lower your
dialog: voice?:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: No, I won't: I want to know
dialog: what's eating you: You've been
dialog: a total bitch ever since you
dialog: arrived in New York:
speaker_heading: HILUARY
dialog: (furious)
dialog: I could say the same about you!
dialog: ce
dialog: (superior)
dialog: I've simply been reacting to you:
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (sudden, cold)
dialog: Oh, for God's sake, CC,
dialog: don't you get it? We have
dialog: nothing in common anymore.
dialog: It happens to the best of
dialog: friends and it's happened
dialog: to us. We've grown apart
dialog: and it's time to accept it.
dialog: ec
dialog: You're wrong. We haven't
dialog: grown apart. You've fallen
dialog: apart.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (icey)
dialog: I don't think I want to
dialog: pursue this.
dialog: (turning, heading
dialog: for exit)
dialog: S50 long, CC. Take care.
dialog: ec
dialog: (sudden, loud)
dialog: Oh, no, you don't, you
dialog: stuck-up little witch:
dialog: You're not getting off
dialog: that easy:
dialog: (going after
dialog: her angry)
dialog: When your father died he
dialog: took the best of you with
dialog: him, my old friend:
dialog: (grabbing her arm,
dialog: tarning her)
dialog: You tried to be an interest-
dialog: ing person for a while, but
dialog: you couldn't take the heat:
text: At the first sign of trouble,
dialog: you caved in, reverted back to
dialog: type! You're nothing but
text: a tight-assed, small-minded
dialog: little snob these days:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (low, vicious) .
dialog: How would a pretentious little
dialog: climber like you know that?
dialog: ec
dialog: (harsh)
dialog: Experience! And I know what's
dialog: eathing you too: Plain, old-
dialog: fashioned jealousy:
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (contemptuous)
dialog: Jealousy? Of what? Your raw
dialog: ambition? Your new money?
dialog: Your marriage of convenience?
dialog: ec
dialog: (low, mortally
dialog: wounded)
dialog: My what?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Every time John looks at me
dialog: you come apart at the seams:
dialog: What's the problem? Are you
dialog: afraid he doesn't love you?
dialog: Arve you afraid you got him by
dialog: default?
text: cc stares at her.
dialog: ce
dialog: (low, even)
dialog: Maybe I am, but at least I
dialog: belong to myself, which is
dialog: more than I can say for you.
dialog: rt'm doing what I want to do,
dialog: remember? Free at last, free
dialog: at last? I'm living the life
dialog: you wanted to live but didn't
dialog: have the courage for, so don't
dialog: tell me you're not jealous. You're
dialog: s0 jealous you can hardly breathe.
text: CC suddenly turns and walks out. As she vanishes inte
text: the crowd on the street, Hillary becomes aware of people
text: staring at her. She casually pretends to examine some
text: stockings, but as she picks them up her hand is shaking.
scene_heading: INT. PLANE - SUNSET
text: Hillary and Michael sit side by side as the plane levels
text: off after take-off. He is working on a file and she is
text: calmly reading a magazine. When the seat belt light snaps
text: off she calmly undoes her belt and gets up.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I'll be right back.
text: He nods without looking up from the file. She walks off
text: down the aisle toward the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. PLANE BATHROOM ~ SUNSET
dialog: eee
dialog: 59.
text: Hillary walks in, pulls the door shut and locks it, then
text: suddenly doubles over. as she is swept by great wracking
dialog: sobs.
scene_heading: INT. CC AND JOHN'S LIVING ROOM - SUNSET
text: The light is almost gone. They sit on the couch looking
text: cut the windows at the park, the dog stretched out asleep
text: on their laps. John has his arms around CC and it is ob-
text: vious she has been crying for a long time. Pause, then:
dialog: ec
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: If she hadn't gone back
dialog: to Boston, would you have
dialog: ended up with her instead
dialog: of me?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Would you believe me if I
dialog: said no?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: JOHN :
dialog: Then why bother asking the
dialog: question.
dialog: Pause,
dialog: ec
dialog: (soft)
dialog: What will I do without a
dialog: best friend..?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: {comforting hug)
dialog: You have me.
text: She looks at him levingly, then looks back out at the park.
dialog: cc °
dialog: (low)
dialog: It's not the same.
text: They sit silently, holding each other, as the last light
text: fades.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON BANNER OF BOSTON GLOBE NEWSPAPER
text: as it bounces along in a canvas bag of other papers. The
text: date reads May 15, 1976. A hand reaches into the bag and
text: yanks the paper out. PULL BACK AS:
dialog: 60.
scene_heading: EXT, BEACON HILL STREET - BOSTON - DAY
text: A NEWSPAPER BOY on a bike moves along the tree-shaded
text: street tossing papers onto the front steps of perfectly
dialog: restored and meticulously maintained 18th century town-
text: houses. CAMERA STAYS ON ONE AS THE PAPER LANDS. A moment
text: passes, the door opens and Hillary comes out. In spite of
text: the fact that her face is pale and drawn with unhappiness,
text: . she is still beautiful. She picks up the paper and goes
text: back inside,
scene_heading: INT. FRONT HALLWAY - DAY
text: It is furnished almost exactly as it was when it belonged
text: to her father. Listlessly reading the headlines, Hillary
text: wanders down the hall to the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Dressed for work, Michael is at the table finishing up
text: breakfast. Hillary walks in and sits down, still reading
text: the paper, then as Michael gets up and starts gathering
dialog: his things together to leave: :
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (reading, dull)
dialog: Coming home for dinner
dialog: tonight?
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (distant)
dialog: I doubt it. I'm swamped
dialog: with work,
dialog: (forced interest)
dialog: Wnat are you doing today? .
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (reading, dull)
dialog: I have another appointment
dialog: at the infertility clinic
dialog: and I have to buy a wrench.
text: He stares at her.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: A wrench? Why?
text: She looks at him.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: We don't have one.
text: He stares at her, gives her a light kiss on the cheek and
text: walks out. She goes back to the paper.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON TELEVISION SCREEN
dialog: 61.
text: On screen, a few depressed-looking PEOPLE sit at tables
text: in a seedy nightclub as a ruined-looking EMCEE with very
text: large, white caps introduces the next act. There is a drum
text: roll, the curtains part and CC emerges to applause and whis-
text: tles from a larger audience we cannot see. As she goes into
text: a routine which is a witty take-off on her days as a
text: cabaret singer at the Dew Drop Inn, CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BAG
text: and we realize we are in Hillary's bedroom. She is sitting
text: on the floor in front of the t.v. watching CC with longing.
text: A moment passes, then we hear:
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (calling v.0.)
dialog: Hillary?:
text: She turns the sound down guiltily and rushes out of the room.
scene_heading: INT, HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: She leans over the bannister to see Michael looking up at
text: her from the first floor.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: Are you watching television?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: No, of course not. I was.
text: just in the bathroom.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Our guests are getting ready
dialog: to leave.
speaker_heading: . , HILLARY
dialog: I'll be right down.
text: As he walks away, she rushes back into the bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: She rushes to the t.v. and turns the sound up slightly,
text: but CC's performance is over. As the end credits roll and
text: applause continues, CC mills around the stage of Saturday ~
text: Night Live with other members of the cast. Hillary stares
text: at her with hungry longing, then reaches out and gentiy
text: touches her on-screen figure with her finger tip. It
text: vanishes and is replaced by a commercial.
scene_heading: INT. MICHAEL'S STUDY - DAY
text: Michael is stretched out cn the couch watching the tennis
text: matches at Wimbledon when Hillary appears in the doorway.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: It's time.
dialog: 
dialog: 62.
text: Michael gets up with an exasperated sigh and backs out
text: of the room, eyes on the t.v.
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY AND MICHAEL'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: They try to make love with as much enthusiasm as two pieces
text: of wood. Michael falls away from her.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Iocan't. I'm sorry, but
dialog: I just can't.
text: They both stare at the ceiling for a moment.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Mind if I go back to
dialog: Wimbledon?
text: She shakes her head ‘no.' He is out of bed, into a robe
text: and out the door like a shot. She remains in bed, staring
text: at the ceiling.
text: CLOSE ON A PORTRAIT OF CC in the Sunday New York Times
text: Magazine section for June, 1976. It is part of an inter-
text: view. The magazine section is strewn on top of a pile of
text: Sunday papers, a straw hat, a cluster of wild flowers,
text: small overnight bag complete with umbrella, tennis racket
text: and shoes - the accoutrements of a weekend in the country.
text: All this is tossed onto the seat of a moving car. PULL BACK.
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY'S BMW - RAINEY MORNING
text: Dressed in country clothes and a slicker, Hillary drives
text: down her street and parks in front of her house.
scene_heading: EXT, HILLARY'S HOUSE - RAINEY MORNING
text: As she jumps fran the car, clutching her weekend gear,
text: an OLDER COUPLE emerge from the house next door dressed
dialog: for church.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: You're back early from the
dialog: country.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (running up front
dialog: _ steps)
dialog: Michael stayed in town and
dialog: it wouldn't stop raining:
dialog: Absolutely dismal weekend:
text: She opens the door with her key and goes inside.
scene_heading: INT, FRONT HALLWAY - RAINEY MORNING
dialog: 63.
text: She dumps her things on a chair and walks briskly toward
dialog: the kitchen.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Michael! Are you here?
text: She walks into the kitchen and stops.
scene_heading: INT, KITCHEN - RAINEY MORNING
text: Michael and a very pretty young woman, both in bathrobes,
text: are sitting at the table over breakfast. They all stare
text: at each other, transfixed.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: That's my robe.
scene_heading: EXT. MIAMI BEACH ROAD - DAY
text: A limo drives along the road, which is lined with large,
text: garish apartment complexes, It pulls to a halt in front
dialog: of one of the biggest and most vulgar.
scene_heading: EXT, APARTMENT COMPLEX - DAY
text: The DRIVER jumps out,, runs around to the passenger side
text: and pulls the rear door open. There is the sound of a
text: struggle, curses, barking, then Arthur, now fully grown,
text: leaps from the car yanking CC out after him. She is wear-
text: ing dark glasses,a very extreme Fendi leather suit with
text: enormous padded shoulders, studs and an extremely tight
text: skirt and very high heels, upon which she can barely bal-
text: ance, The driver grabs the leash and struggles to restrain
text: the dog while CC regains her balance. She lifts her glasses
text: and looks at the building with horror , then replaces them.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I'll be back.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: (holding out leash)
dialog: Do you want the dog?
dialog: ce
dialog: Do I want small pox?
text: She stumbles up the steps and passes through the main
text: entrance of the building into the courtyard. Her skirt is
dialog: 64.
text: so narrow at the knees she is forced to take very tiny
dialog: steps.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTYARD - DAY
text: It is vast and dominated by a large swimming pool. It is
text: packed with OLD PEOPLE sitting on beach chairs, fully
text: dressed and shielded from the sun by hats and umbrellas,
text: playing games. CC stumbles along between the tables, peer-
text: ing around as if she is looking for someone.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTYARD - DAY - ANOTH:R ANGLE
text: FOUR WOMEN are sitting around a table under an umbrella
text: playing backgammon. One of them is Leona, who is fatter
text: and more horribly dressed than ever. CC appears behind
text: her, stumbling along through the maze of tables. While
text: Leona shakes the dice, the woman next to her catches sight
dialog: of cc.
speaker_heading: OTHER WOMAN
dialog: Oh, my God, will you look
dialog: at that slut:
text: Leona glances behind her, suddenly stops shaking the dice,
text: leans back in her seat and starts screaming in short fran-
text: tic bursts. The other women look at her with alarm.
speaker_heading: WOMEN
dialog: What's wrong?: Leona:
dialog: Is it your heart, your
dialog: bunions? What hurts? Leona:
dialog: Why are you screaming? What
dialog: is it?!
text: Leona struggles to her feet and throws her arms out drama-
dialog: tically.
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: (shrieking)
dialog: It's my daughter the Broad-
dialog: way star!
text: She starts running toward CC, which is not an easy task
text: for a woman her size, arms thrown out and still screaming.
text: CC suddenly freezes and looks as if she is about to turn
text: and run in the opposite direction, but Leona reaches her
text: before she can move and throws her arms around CC.
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: (hysterical)
dialog: I can't believe it's you!
dialog: I can't believe you're
dialog: here: It's like a gift from
dialog: God: A dream come true:
dialog: 65.
text: CC gently struggles out of her death grip.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I just saw you a month ago
dialog: in New York, Leona.
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: (somber)
dialog: At my age a month means a
dialog: lot. It could be all I have.
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Is he with you?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: Who?, Who else: The man of
dialog: my dreams, that handsome hus-
dialog: band of yours, adorable John:
dialog: Where is he?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I left hin.
text: Leona stares at her in shock, then shakes her head in des- .
dialog: pair.
speaker_heading: . LEONA
dialog: I don't believe it. Af-
dialog: ter only three years..
dialog: (sad sigh)
dialog: Why'd you walk, sweetie?
dialog: Was it another woman. .?
text: CC looks away, fighting back tears, obviously very upset.
dialog: ce
dialog: No, it's more complicated
dialog: than that..
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: (kind)
dialog: Teil me, honey, get it off
dialog: your chest. Did he smack
dialog: you around?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: No!
dialog: (leoking away,
dialog: upset)
dialog: Something just died between
dialog: us, that's all...he used to
dialog: care about what happened to
dialog: me and..I don't know. he just
dialog: stopped paying attention to me.
dialog: 
dialog: 66.
text: Leona stares at her, then turns and starts waddling back
text: to the table, laughing softly to herself. CC goes after
dialog: her.
dialog: ec
dialog: (disturbed)
dialog: Why are you laughing, Leona?
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: Never mind. I'11 get my
dialog: purse and we'll go upstairs
text: to the apartment.
dialog: ce
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: Tell me why you're laughing:
dialog: Wny did you laugh when I said
dialog: that?:
text: Leona turns to look at her with a sigh.
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: Honey, why do you think
dialog: I'm living in Florida?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: You like the sun.
speaker_heading: LEONA
dialog: I don't give a shit about
dialog: the sun. I'm here because
dialog: it's peaceful.
dialog: (kind)
dialog: You want too much attention,
dialog: cC. You want so much atten-
dialog: tion all the time from every-
dialog: body that you wear people out.
dialog: You wore me and your father out
dialog: by the time you were fifteen.
dialog: I love you, but sometimes I just
dialog: can't pay any more attention to
dialog: you, do you know what I mean? I
dialog: want to, but I just can't do it.
dialog: (deep sigh)
dialog: If I were you I wouldn't leave
dialog: anybody for not paying attention
dialog: to you because sooner or later
dialog: you'll have to leave everybody.
text: cc stands staring after Leona with a frightened expression
text: on her face as Leona walks back to the table.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST - DAY
text: A taxi pulls up to the curb in front of CC's building and
text: she jumps out, wearing the same clothes and accompanied
dialog: 67.
text: by Arthur. Barely keeping her grip on a small suitcase,
text: she struggles past the DOORMAN into the building, shouting
text: commands at the hysterical animal which it completely ig-
dialog: nores,.
scene_heading: INT. CC AND JOHN'S APARTMENT ~- DAY ©
text: We hear a key in the leck, then the door opens and CC is
text: pulled in by the dog. She gratefully drops the suitcase
text: to the floor.
dialog: ce
dialog: (happy shout)
dialog: John: I'm back: Where
dialog: . are you?:
text: There is no answer as she releases the dog from the leash.
text: She straightens up and glances around anxiously as he runs
text: off down the hall,
dialog: ec
dialog: (soft, scared)
dialog: John..?
text: Silence. CAMERA FOLLOWING she walks down the hall and turns
text: into his study. Pictures have been removed from the walls
text: and shoved clumsily into boxes, along with books, scripts,
dialog: ete.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET OUTSIDE OF EAST SIDE THEATER - DAY
text: CC walks rapidly down the seedy street with a set, tense
text: expression on her face, staring at the sidewalk as she
text: goes. When she reaches the theater she hesitates, almost
text: as if she is afraid of entering, then she runs up the steps
text: and goes inside.
scene_heading: INT. EAST SIDE THEATER - LOUNGE - DAY
text: The place is empty. CC walks down the hall to John's office.
scene_heading: INT. JOHN'S OFFICE - DAY
text: CC stops in the doorway. The room is empty, but a couple
text: of open suitcases holding John's clothes sit on the couch.
text: She hears a noise in the main part of the theater.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN PART OF THEATER - DAY
text: Holding a seript, John is moving some furniture around on
text: @ set when CC bursts into the room,
dialog: ce
dialog: : (upset)
dialog: I've been looking everywhere
dialog: for you:
dialog: 68.
text: He tarns and looks at her calmly as she walks over to him.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I'm restaging the third
dialog: \ act of Fly By Night. It’s
dialog: too stiff.
text: She stares at him, shaken by his cool composure, then walks
text: over to him slowly.
dialog: ce
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: How come you packed your
dialog: things? ,
dialog: (small laugh)
dialog: Not moving out, are you?
speaker_heading: JOnN
dialog: Yes. I an.
text: They stand staring at each other, then she sinks down
text: onto the set couch.
dialog: - ce
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: I was only kidding when I
dialog: left: .I never meant to stay
dialog: away for good!
text: Waen she gets no response, her eyes begin to fill with tears,
text: then with a deep sob she slowly lowers her face to her knees.
text: John quickly sits down next to her and gently strokes her
text: hair as she cries,
dialog: ce
dialog: Why is this happening?
text: He shrugs, very upset.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: We want different things
dialog: out of life, that's all.
dialog: ce
dialog: But I lwe you.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: T know. I love you too.
dialog: (slightly amazed)
dialog: Do you realize I was ac~
dialog: tually faithful to you all
dialog: this time?
text: She straightens up.
dialog: 69.
dialog: ce
dialog: (astonished)
dialog: You're kidding. I always
dialog: thought you were having affairs.
dialog: They ponder this surprising bit of information for a mo-
text: ment, then she looks at him.
dialog: She stares
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (heartbroken)
dialog: Then why is everything
dialog: falling apart?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Love's not enough.
dialog: (leoking away)
dialog: My idea of what's important
dialog: and yours isn't the -same.
dialog: (faint smile)
dialog: Let's just say I'm not an
dialog: uptown type.
dialog: ce
dialog: Big deal; We'll live down-
dialog: town:
speaker_heading: . | SOHN
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: That's not what I mean.
dialog: (intense)
dialog: I don't care about success
dialog: the way you do, CC. Moving
dialog: into the main stream doesn't
dialog: interest me.
dialog: ce
dialog: (suddenly angry)
dialog: Why not?: Are you such a
dialog: great artist you're too good
dialog: for it or something?:
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (tough)
dialog: I'm just more interested
dialog: in other things - the work
dialog: itself, discovering what's
dialog: new, taking a chance on the
dialog: unknown.
dialog: (pause, quieter)
dialog: Don't you get it? I don't
dialog: want to go where you're go-
dialog: ing. I'd just be along for
dialog: the ride and that's not how
dialog: I want to spend my life.
text: at him, shaken by his words.
dialog: 70.
dialog: ce
dialog: {small voice)
dialog: Okay. I won't go.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: {faint smise)
dialog: You're already gone, Cecilia.
dialog: You're long gone.
text: Her eyes fill with tears as they stare at each other.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (heartbroken)
dialog: Better lucky than good, huh..?
text: John reaches out and gently moves her hair away from her
dialog: face. .
speaker_heading: . JOHN
dialog: Yeah. Better lucky than
dialog: good.
text: They stare at each other, then they hold eacn other,
text: rocking slightly, as she cries. She leans back to look
text: at him.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (small voice)
dialog: Will you take Arthur...?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (horrified)
dialog: Are you out of your mind?
text: They go back to holding each other. John's eyes have
text: tears in them.
text: CLOSE ON AN ALMOND JOY as a woman's hand rips it up from
text: a make-up strewn counter and frantically tears the wrapper
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: You obviously didn't
dialog: use the tea bag com-
dialog: presses I recommended,
scene_heading: INT. MAKE-UP TRAILER - SOUND STAGE = DAY
text: Wearing a robe, CC sits in front of a mirror clutching the
text: candy bar while a tough-looking WOMAN in late middle-age
text: paints her face. CC looks terrible - overweight, skin
text: pasty, eyes puffy, hair brittle, ete.
dialog: ce
dialog: Sure I did. They're
dialog: smaller, aren't they?
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Smaller? Those aren't
dialog: bags under your eyes,
dialog: honey, that's luggage.
text: cc glares at her as she takes a large bite of the candy bar,
scene_heading: INT. SOUND STAGE - MOVIE SET - DAY
text: A scene is in progress and is being watched by a silent
text: CREW, The set is a seedy hotel room. CC sits on the bed
text: dressed in a cheap wrapper, looking like a tart, while a
text: MAN her age gets dressed.
dialog: ee
dialog: (lighting cig-
dialog: arette, upset)
dialog: How can you just leave,
dialog: Freddie? The only thing
dialog: that kept me going was wait-
dialog: ing for you to come back...
dialog: (jumping up, stubb-
dialog: ing out cigarette)
dialog: This doesn't work for me:
text: The other actor spins around with a groan and slams his
text: fist against the wall as the buzzer sounds, the stage ex~
text: _plodes with noise and the DIRECTOR, a pinched-looking man
text: in middle-age, walks over to her with a lethal look on his
dialog: face,
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: What's wrong this time?:
dialog: ce
dialog: I just wouldn't do that:
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (soft, explosive)
dialog: Do what..?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Beg that asshole to stick
dialog: around after he screwed my
dialog: sister and stole my Winnebago;
dialog: I'm not that kind of person:
dialog: I mean, why would someone like
dialog: me ever do such a pathetic thing?:
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (suddenly screaming)
dialog: Because you are playing a pros-
dialog: titute named Loretta, not your-
dialog: self, so will you please just
dialog: worry about the terrifying way
dialog: you look these days and let me
dialog: worry about the script:
dialog: 72.
dialog: ec
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: How can I? The script is al-
dialog: _ Most as shitty as your direc=
dialog: tion:
text: He stares at her, then suddenly slaps her hard in the face.
text: Everyone on the set freezes in shock. She recovers her
text: balance, then as her eyes fill with tears of pain and hum-
text: iliation, she suddenly swings hard and punches him full in
text: the face. He goes down like a piece of lead.
scene_heading: IN«. HILLARY'S KITCHEN - BOSTON = DAY
text: It is a complete mess. Her hair stringy and uncombed,
text: Hillary sits at the counter in front of a small t.v. which
text: is tuned to a soap opera, looking through a paper. She is
text: dressed in a ratty housecoat over an even rattier nigit-
text: gown, argyle anklets and large fuzzy slippers and her face
text: has a haggard cast to it. A moment passes and a shanty—
text: Irish cleaning woman in her fifties, MAURA, wearing a slo-
text: venly uniform, walks in with a lit cigarette stuck in her
text: mouth and an armload of dirty sheets which she drops on
text: the floor near the sink. She goes to the counter and pours
dialog: herself more coffee.
speaker_heading: MAURA
dialog: Anything happen?
text: Hillary glances at her with dull eyes.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Yes. They had to call the
text: paramedics for Anita's back
dialog: and Glenn took the job at the
dialog: ear dealership after all.
text: Maura sits down and opens a tabloid. They read in silence
text: for a moment, listening to the soap.
speaker_heading: MAURA
dialog: (reading, soft)
dialog: Amazing.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Wnat?
speaker_heading: MAURA
dialog: (reading, smoking)
dialog: According to this article
dialog: Russian scientists replaced
text: a human eye with a fish eye
dialog: and it worked.
dialog: Maura! at ¥
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: MAURA
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: You didn't do any laundry
dialog: last week. Will you be sure
dialog: i to finish it today?
speaker_heading: MAURA
dialog: (reading, smoking)
dialog: ! Sure, honey. I'm just wait-
dialog: ‘ ing for some of that hardened
dialog: dirt to come off those dishes
dialog: in the sink and I'll start on
dialog: the coloreds.
text: ' * Before Hillary can object, the front doorbell rings. She
text: Do leaps out of her seat in a panic.
speaker_heading: \ _ HILLARY
dialog: : You have to answer that:
dialog: i It could be him:
speaker_heading: i . MAURA
dialog: | (leoking up)
dialog: -o Who?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: Mr. Hamilton: IZ don't want
dialog: ' him to see me like this:
speaker_heading: MAURA
dialog: (going back to
dialog: paper, disgusted)
dialog: You always say that and it's
dialog: never him. He hasn't even
dialog: called you once since he moved
text: in with the other one.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (shrill fury)
dialog: Who cares?: I told you to
dialog: answer the door and I want
dialog: you to answer it now!
text: Maura slowly looks up from her paper, deeply offended.
speaker_heading: MAURA
dialog: You have no right to talk
dialog: ~~ to me that way, Mrs. Hamilton,
dialog: just because I've had a less
dialog: fortunate life than you have.
text: The doorbell rings again. Hillary glares at her, then
dialog: 74.
text: spins on her heel and stalks from the room. Maura goes
text: back to her paper with an insulted sniff.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT HALLWAY - DAY
text: It is also a mess. Hillary reaches the door, hesitates
text: anxiously, smoothing her hair and rearranging her dread-
text: ful housecoat, then, her back very straight and head held
text: high, she pulls open the door. She stares in shock. CC
text: stares back apprehensively looking even worse than she did
text: on the movie set, wearing & voluminous sweat suit and very
text: dark glasses, A taxi is waiting in the street.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: ec:
dialog: ec
dialog: (nervous smile)
dialog: The one and only. Long .
dialog: time no see, huh?
text: Hillary stares at her with dazed, unbelieving eyes.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Yes. Very long.
dialog: (soft)
dialog: You look terrible.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Oh, yeah? Well, you're not
dialog: exactly a fashion plate your-
dialog: self, you know?
dialog: (Hillary's eyes
dialog: £ill with tears;
dialog: apologetic)
dialog: Don't cry, for God's ke,
dialog: I didn't mean it: Most of
dialog: the time you're a great
dialog: dresser: Not exactly a pio-
dialog: neer in the color department
dialog: maybe, but....
dialog: 
speaker_heading: HILIARY
dialog: (emotional, battling
dialog: sobs)
dialog: Oh, CC, you have no idea how
dialog: much I've missed you: Will
dialog: you ever forgive me for those
dialog: terrible things I said?:
dialog: ec
dialog: (emotional, re-
dialog: lieved)
dialog: Me forgive you?: I came here
dialog: to ask you to forgive me:
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: For what? All you did was
dialog: tell the truth. I was so
dialog: jealous of you for doing
dialog: everything you said you
dialog: were going to do I couldn't
dialog: see straight.
dialog: {low, ashamed)
dialog: And because John was so ob-
dialog: viously in love with you.
dialog: ec
dialog: (misexable shrug)
dialog: Yeah, well, that's all water
dialog: under the bridge now. We
dialog: broke up.
dialog: Oh, no: ® ¥
text: cc nods, then sinks down onto the step. Hillary sits
text: down next to her.
dialog: ec
dialog: It really did me in. Tf
dialog: was so wrecked they shut
dialog: down my first movie.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (aghast)
dialog: Wnat happened?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: I was a little edgey, that's
dialog: all, and it's not my medium,
dialog: you know?
dialog: (pause, quick)
dialog: I also broke the director's
dialog: jaw.
dialog: (eyes filling with
dialog: tears)
dialog: Oh, but that's not the worst
dialog: of it...
dialog: (choked) .
text: Arthur was hit by a laundry truck.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (sympathetic)
dialog: I'm so sorry:
dialog: ce
dialog: . (erying)
dialog: He died...
dialog: (snapping fingers)
dialog: just like that:
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: At least he didn't suffer,
dialog: ce
dialog: (tortured)
dialog: No, but the thing is I al-
dialog: ways thought I hated him
dialog: when I really loved him so
dialog: I never showed it: He never
dialog: knew how much I really cared!
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (reassuring)
dialog: I'm sure he guessed. You .
dialog: mustn't torture yourself about
dialog: it now.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: cc?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (wiping eyes)
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: . HILLARY
dialog: Wno's Arthur?
text: . ec quickly looks at her, then throws her arms around her
text: old friend with a happy laugh.
dialog: Hillary looks
dialog: ce
dialog: Oh, God, I've missed you:
dialog: (pulling back,
dialog: surprised)
dialog: You're so fat!
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I'm not fat.
dialog: (opening robe)
dialog: I'm having a baby.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (in shock)
dialog: What..?
text: down at her stomach with a strange detachment.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I'm five months pregnant.
dialog: (looking up, break-
text: ing into sobs, almost
dialog: incoherent)
dialog: After he left me for the Chiro-
dialog: practor we met to discuss the di-
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: HILLARY (cont'd.)
dialog: vorce and that's when it
dialog: happened except he doesn't
dialog: want it because he's going to
dialog: marry her.
dialog: ce
dialog: , (seft, appalled)
dialog: He left you for a chiroprac-
dialog: tor and you're having a baby
dialog: on your own....?
text: Hillary neds as she sobs uncontrollably. CC breaks into
text: a delighted smile. .
dialog: ce
dialog: (ecstatic)
dialog: Oh, Hillary: If it’s a
dialog: girl will. you name her
dialog: after me?
scene_heading: INT, EPISCOPAL CATHEDRAL - SUNDAY MORNING
text: It is packed with a very well-heeled CONGREGATION attend-
text: ing a service, Wearing dark glasses and a vast, shroud-
text: like outfit, her hair a wild explosion around her face, CC
text: stands next to Hillary, reading from a hymn book as she
text: sings along with the others.
speaker_heading: EVERYONE
dialog: (singing)
dialog: And did the Countenance Divine
dialog: Shine forth upon our clouded hills? |
dialog: And was Jerusalem builded here
dialog: among those dark Satanic mills?
text: Hillary suddenly grabs CC's hand and puts it on her sto-
text: mach. As she sings, CC slowly turns to look at her with
dialog: a@ smile of delight and wonder.
speaker_heading: EVERYONE
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Bring me my bow of burning gold
dialog: Bring me my arrows of desire
dialog: Bring me my spear - o clouds, unfold!
dialog: Bring me my chariot of fire!
scene_heading: INT. NURSERY - DAY
text: Hillary is on a step-ladder hanging lace curtains. CC sits
text: on.the floor putting baby clothes into a bureau, humming
text: to herself. They work in a companionable silence.
scene_heading: ExT. HILLARY'S BACK GARDEN ~ NIGHT
dialog: . 78.-
text: Everything is blooming. Hillary is in a chair and cc
text: is stretched out on the grass gazing up at the night sky.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: cc?
dialog: ce
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft, worried)
dialog: Do you think maybe I'm do-
dialog: ing the wrong thing to have
dialog: this baby?
dialog: ce
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: To have it without a father.
dialog: Is it selfish?
dialog: Probably.
dialog: (pause, quiet)
dialog: But so what. All great love
dialog: is selfish.
scene_heading: INT, LOBBY - BOSTON GENERAL HOSPITAL - DAY
text: It is crowded with PEOPLE. CC and Hillary are heading
text: for a bank of elevators, across from which are couches.
text: CC has a stack of magazines under her arm.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: But I want you to come with me.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Forget it.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Why ?
dialog: ce
dialog: You know how I feel about
dialog: sickness, It depresses me.
speaker_heading: HILLARY -
dialog: But I'm not sick, I'm pregnant. .
dialog: ee
dialog: This is a hospital. There
dialog: 
dialog: 79,
speaker_heading: CC (cont'd.)
dialog: will be sick people in
dialog: the halls,
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: But don't you want to see
dialog: what the baby looks like on
dialog: the screen?
dialog: ce
dialog: Draw me a picture.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (v.0.)
dialog: Hillary?
text: The two women turn just as they reach the elevators to
text: see a slightly chubby, slightly balding man in his for-
text: ties, RICHARD FELDMAN, with a sweet, open face coming up
text: behind them. Hillary's face lights up.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Dr. Feldman.
dialog: {to CC)
dialog: Dr. Feldman's my obstetri-
dialog: cian.
dialog: (to Richard)
dialog: Dr. Richard Feldman this
dialog: is my oldest friend.... ~
text: Richard is looking at CC with amazement,
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: cc Bloom:
dialog: ce
dialog: (flirtateous smile)
dialog: None other.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: I've always been a great
dialog: fan of yours,
dialog: ce
dialog: (flattered)
dialog: How nice.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: : (embarrassed)
dialog: I travelled through a hurri-
dialog: cane to see you on Broadway.
text: cc is beginning to bask in the flattery.
dialog: ce
dialog: I hope it was worth it.
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: Absolutely. You were brill-
dialog: iant.
text: cc is now intrigued. She gives him a tense smile.
dialog: ce
dialog: Did your wife think it
dialog: was worth it too?
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: It was before we were married.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: {smile fading)
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (uncomfortable shrug)
dialog: And she's also not my wife
dialog: anymore. We were divorced
dialog: last year.
text: The elevator doors bang open.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (delighted smile)
dialog: I'm so sorry to hear it:
dialog: I hope it wasn't too pain-
dialog: fal:
dialog: (taking Hillary's
dialog: arm, entering ele-
dialog: vator)
dialog: Ready for your radar, dear?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (startled)
dialog: . Sonar and I thought you
dialog: weren't coming with me be-
dialog: cause you can‘t stand the
dialog: sight of sick peo...
dialog: ec
dialog: (cuttang in, aghast)
dialog: Not coming with you? Are
dialog: you mad?
dialog: (simpering smile
dialog: at Richard)
dialog: I wouldn't dream of missing
dialog: a chance to see the little
dialog: darling on screen.
text: Hillary looks away with a disgusted expression as the doors
dialog: shut.
scene_heading: EXT. BOSTON COMMON - NIGHT
dialog: 81.
text: ann Dressed for a date, CC and Richard stroll across the
dialog: common.
dialog: ce
dialog: I loved the restaurant:
dialog: I'm just crazy about all
dialog: | that early American crap:
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: | (nervous amile)
dialog: . I was afraid it might seem
dialog: i provincial to you after New
dialog: York. .
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: | Nah. I grew up in the pro-
text: vinces.
speaker_heading: : RICHARD
dialog: ‘ (surprised)
dialog: I Where?
dialog: 1 , ec
dialog: , The Bronx.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: i at (sudden)
dialog: . t guess you're anxious to
dialog: ‘ get back.
dialog: 7 . ec
dialog: : . (horrified)
dialog: To the Bronx?!
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: i No. New York. Show Busi-
dialog: ness.
text: She. looks away and her face clouds over,
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (low)
dialog: Oh, yeah. That.
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: Maybe I am, maybe I'm not,
text: He stops to look at her with growing excitement.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: What do you mean, maybe not?
text: oo She looks into his eyes.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft, emotional)
dialog: Maybe I'm sick of having
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: ce (cont'd.)
dialog: a show business life, maybe
dialog: I want something normal,
dialog: Maybe I'd like to be a wife
dialog: and mother, join one of those
dialog: quilting bees or something.
text: They are gazing into one another's eyes.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: . (soft, hopeful)
dialog: Are you saying you might
dialog: give up your career to get
dialog: married?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft, emotional)
dialog: Yeah...if the right guy
dialog: came along...
text: He slowly takes her in his arms and kisses her passionately.
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY'S LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Hillary is sitting on the floor in front of the fire with
text: newspapers looking at the door expectantly. The floor
text: is littered with bags and boxes from a shopping spree.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (0.8.)
dialog: I can't believe how
dialog: perfect this is... look:
text: She bursts into the room dressed like the Queen Mother - hair
text: pulled back under a hat, matching shoes and bag, ridiculous-
text: ly conservative suit and elbow length gloves.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (excited)
dialog: So? What do you think?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (aghast, soft)
dialog: I..I don't know what to say...
dialog: ce
dialog: (spinning around,
dialog: happily)
dialog: Am I the picture of a doctor's
dialog: wife or what?!
scene_heading: INT. RICHARD'S MOTHER'S LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON
text: It is furnished like a room in Versailles except it is
text: a tract house in a Boston suburb. CC sits on the
dialog: 83.
text: baby blue brocade couch with Richard, dressed in another
text: Queen Mother outfit. An ELDERLY WOMAN is at the gilt and
text: white baby grand piano and Richard's MOTHER, a large, bossy
text: woman in her late sixties is holding out the receiver of
text: a white and gold French telephone.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: C'mon, Ceece. Just one
dialog: little tune so my sister
dialog: Esther knows it's you!
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (tight)
dialog: Leave her alone, Mother,
dialog: please:
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: But Esther is one of her
dialog: biggest fans:
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (embarrassed, to CC)
dialog: You don't have to do this:
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: (coaxing, to CC)
dialog: Just one song. You'll make
dialog: @ sick old woman who could
dialog: die any minute and who has
dialog: a skin disease that would make
dialog: you faint a very happy woman.
text: CC stares at her, then smiles sweetly.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Okay, Lillian.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Mom:
text: Richard looks away in an agony of embarrassment. CC gets
text: up and takes the receiver.
dialog: ec
dialog: Okay. .Mom.
dialog: (inte phone)
dialog: Hello? Esther?
dialog: (stiff)
dialog: No. I am not an imper-
dialog: sonator.
dialog: (hard)
dialog: I can't sing that without
dialog: a full symphony orchestra
dialog: and chorus, How about A
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: cc (cont 'd.)
dialog: Slow Boat to China?
dialog: (teugh) .
dialog: Listen, Esther, it's either
dialog: Slow Boat or nothing, get it?
dialog: (to woman at piano)
dialog: Hit it, Lydia,
text: As CC sings Slow Boat To China over the phone, Richard's
text: mother watches from a pumpkin brocade ¢hair with a pro-
text: prietary smile.
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY'S KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Wearing her robe and still half.asleep, CC flips through
text: a magazine, making notes on a pad, while she drinks coffee.
text: The phone is ringing. A second later, it is answered,
text: then Hillary walks into the room.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (pouring coffee)
dialog: It's for you. Your agent.
text: cC slowly lifts her head and stares at her, suddenly fully
text: awake, then gets up and quickly walks out of the room.
text: As Hillary sits down at the table she glances at the cover -
text: of CC’s magazine. It is BRIDE.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - MORNING
text: When CC reaches the telephone she hesitates anxiously,
text: -then snatches up the receiver.
dialog: ec
dialog: (casual) .
dialog: Hello? It's who..?
dialog: (feigned surprise)
dialog: Lester: How on earth did
dialog: you find me?
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: I did not leave a hundred
dialog: messages, I left two, over
dialog: a month ago:
scene_heading: INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY
text: The place looks like a tornedo hit it and suitcases are
text: open on the bed. CC is packing frantically. Hillary
text: stands in the doorway in shock.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: You're leaving? Just like
dialog: that? .
dialog: ce
dialog: I have to: I've been asked to
text: replace the lead in a Broadway
dialog: hit! It's my chance to come back
dialog: from the dead: .
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: HILLARY .
dialog: But what about the baby..?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I'll be back for that.
dialog: (trying on Queen
dialog: Mother hat)
dialog: I can't wear this in New
dialog: York. Do you want it?
text: Hillary rips the hat from her hand and throws it aside.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I won't let you do this!
dialog: ce
dialog: what?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Just waltz in here, make a
dialog: mess and leave me to clean
dialog: it up:
dialog: ce
dialog: What are you talking about?
dialog: I'm going to clean the room
dialog: before I...
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Fuck the room, I’m talking
dialog: about Richard, your fiancee.
dialog: ce
dialog: (soft, accusing)
dialog: You said fuck,
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (furious)
dialog: You're heartless, CC: You
dialog: just used that poor man to
dialog: get back on your feet and...
dialog: ce
dialog: (furious)
dialog: I did not: “
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: You did too:
text: cC sits on the bed.
dialog: ce
dialog: Okay. Maybe I did, but
dialog: I didn't know I was doing
dialog: it, so it doesn't count.
dialog: 86,
speaker_heading: cc (cont 'd.)
dialog: (low, guilty)
dialog: I feel terrible about it.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Then have the decency to tell
dialog: him you're leaving:
text: Pause. CC looks up at her.
dialog: ec
dialog: I will...but I was just won-
dialog: dering..
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (wary)
dialog: Wondering what?
dialog: ec
dialog: (innocent)
dialog: Well, it's just that I'm
dialog: in such a mad rush to make
dialog: the next shuttle and...
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (low, hard)
dialog: No.
dialog: ce
dialog: (ignoring her,
dialog: eajoling)
dialog: I just thought it might
dialog: be better if you...
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (hard, loud)
dialog: No, no, no, no.
scene_heading: EXT. HILLARY'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Hillary stands in the open doorway in front of Richard
text: who stands on the steps holding a corsage in a plastic
dialog: box.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (stunned) :
dialog: She's gone? Just like that?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: It's the part of a lifetime,
dialog: Richard,
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: Won't you come in for a drink?
dialog: We could talk better inside.
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (heartbroken)
dialog: No, no, I'd rather not...
dialog: (confused, wounded)
dialog: ZI don't understand it. Just
dialog: yesterday she was talking
dialog: about becoming a nurse,
text: Hillary looks away, He stares at the ground, shattered,
text: then suddenly thrusts the corsage at her.
speaker_heading: RICHARD :
dialog: You might as well have this.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Oh, thank you, Richard. It's
dialog: lovely.
dialog: . (desperate)
dialog: - Are you sure you won't come in?
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (backing down steps)
dialog: No, no, thank you... -
dialog: (walking away)
dialog: Goodnight, Hillary, and thanks.
text: She watches him as he disappears into the night, then
text: with a little sigh she takes the corsage out of the box
text: and pins it on as she shoves the door shut with her hip.
scene_heading: EXT, WEST FORTY= SEVENTH STREET - NEW YORK - DAY
text: CC walks to a large theater, a nervous look on her face,
text: and enters.
scene_heading: INT. THEATER - DAY
text: It is empty and dimly lit, the stage set for a performance.
text: The door is pushed open and CC walks in. She glances around.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Hello? Anybody here?
text: No answer, She walks to the stage, mounts it and stands
text: staring out at the empty seats for a moment, then there is
text: a sound to her left and she turns. John Chase walks Slowly
text: toward her from the wings.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Hi, cc. .
text: He stops next to her, She smiles nervously.
dialog: ce
dialog: You haven't changed.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Neither have you.
dialog: Pause.
text: She stares at
dialog: 88.
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: I couldn't believe it
dialog: when my agent said it
dialog: was your show that needed
dialog: the replacement. Why me..?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (casual shrug)
dialog: I heard you weren't busy.
dialog: ec
dialog: (soft, dry)
dialog: I bet.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (straight)
dialog: And you're the only person
dialog: talented enough te play the
dialog: part. Will you do it? Even
dialog: though I'm directing?
text: him, then amiles slightly.
dialog: ce
dialog: * (soft, grateful)
dialog: Sure, I'll do it.
dialog: (walking off stage,
dialog: flippant)
dialog: I mean, business is busi-
dialog: ness, isn't it?
scene_heading: EXT. THEATER - DAY
text: They walk out
text: onto the street and pause.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Rehearsals start Monday?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Ten sharp. Want a taxi?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: No, I'll walk.
dialog: (sudden, bright)
dialog: How's your wife?
speaker_heading: JORN
dialog: Just great.
dialog: ce
dialog: (tense smile)
dialog: And the baby?
speaker_heading: BBA,
speaker_heading: JOHN
text: A real terror.
dialog: (sudden, tense)
dialog: How are you, CC? In love
dialog: with anybody?
text: She stares at him, then shrugs lightly.
dialog: 89.
dialog: ec
dialog: No. I try, but it never seems
dialog: to work. But don't worry.
dialog: (£lippant)
dialog: I'll get over you yet.
text: She turns and starts walking away.
speaker_heading: JOEN
dialog: (sudden, emotional)
dialog: cc:
dialog: (she looks back)
dialog: For whatever it's worth, I've
dialog: never loved anybody as mich
dialog: as I loved you.
dialog: (silence)
dialog: I've often wondered if we
dialog: should have stayed together.
dialog: Pause,
dialog: ce
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: Maybe we should have. The
dialog: point is, we didn't.
text: With a slight wave, she turns and walks off down the
text: street. She locks sad and moved by their exchange, but
text: she also looks as if a weight has been lifted from her.
scene_heading: INT. . BOSTON SHUTTLE DEPARTURE LOUNGE - LA GUARDIA AIRPORT -
scene_heading: MORNING - THE PRESENT
text: Wrapped in her fur coat, CC is curled up in a chair,
text: fast asleep, completely oblivious to the activity around
text: her. Through the window we see the airfield bathed in
text: brilliant sunlight, it has stopped snowing, machines are
text: Clearing the field and a healthy crowd is preparing to
text: board the shuttle. The attendant walks over to CC and gently
text: shakes her shoulder. She opens her eyes looking confused.
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
dialog: We're boarding right away,
dialog: Misa Bloom.
text: She quickly straightens up witn excitement.
dialog: ce
dialog: Thank God: Do I have
dialog: time to make a phone call?
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
dialog: I don't think so. We're :
text: taking off imnediately.
dialog: But you'll be in Boston in
dialog: an hour.
dialog: 90.
text: As he walks away, CC stands up and stretches her cramped
text: limbs, a happy, relieved expression on her face.
scene_heading: INT, PLANE - MORNING
text: As the plane takes off from the snowy field, CC rests her
text: face against the glass, staring out at the blinding light,
text: lost in thoughts that amuse her.
scene_heading: INT. .HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT
text: As Hillary, who is in labor, is moved from her bed onto
text: a guerney by ATTENDANTS, CC stands slightly away from
text: her clutching a surgical gown, a look of sick terror on
text: her face. She is now wearing designer punk clothes and
text: has a green streak through her very red hair. |
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (furious, panting)
dialog: What do you mean you can't
dialog: do it?!
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: Just what I said! You
dialog: know how some people are
dialog: afraid of snakes?!
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (shrieking)
dialog: What does that have to do
dialog: with anything?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I'm afraid of blood and
dialog: @eath and medical instru-
dialog: ments: I can't. even stand
dialog: to hear someone say mucuous
dialog: membrane:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (raging, reacting
dialog: to contractions)
dialog: Yau promised to be my part-
dialog: ner in this:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I made a mistake,
text: Hillary is being wheeled out of the room.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (furious)
dialog: I should have known you'd
dialog: @o something like this!
dialog: It's not the first time!
dialog: 91.
scene_heading: INT, HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: ec goes after the querney as it is wheeled down the hall.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (offended)
dialog: What do you mean by that?
text: Throughout this Hillary responds to her contractions.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I mean have you forgotten
dialog: the time you left me waiting
text: in the lobby of the Plaza
dialog: Hotel and you never showed
dialog: up?! .
dialog: . cc
dialog: I cannot believe you're bring-
dialog: ing this up again:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: It was the most inconsiderate
dialog: thing anyone has ever done to
dialog: me:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: I explained what happened
dialog: a hundred times: I went to
dialog: the Iranian Queen for a pedi-
speaker_heading: CUTE.coe
text: She's so caught up in the story she doesn't notice that
text: they are slamming into the delivery room.
scene_heading: INT. DELIVERY ROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ec (cont'd.)
dialog: And his manic depressive boy-
dialog: friend stole my purse and my...
speaker_heading: RICHARD :
dialog: ce: (tense, guarded) - -
text: Cc quickly turns and her eyes meet Richard's as the delivery
text: team starts setting Hillary up.
dialog: ec
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: Richard.
text: They stare at each other, emotionally shaken by the reunion.
dialog: Pause,
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: Congratulations on your play.
dialog: I hear it's a hit.
dialog: ce
dialog: Yeah. Thanks.
dialog: (pause, soft)
dialog: Congratulations on your
dialog: engagement. I hear she's
dialog: a wonderful person.
text: As they stare at each other, caught up in the moment, Hillary
text: suddenly grabs CC's hand and clutches it tightly in response
text: to a severe contraction, which breaks the spell. Richard
text: swings into action, issuing instructions to the delivery
text: team, and CC looks around the room with horror.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft, stunned)
dialog: How did I get in here?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (panting)
dialog: Will you stay?
text: c¢ leoks at her, glances around the room once -again, her
text: gaze comes to rest on a tray of instruments and she faints
text: dead away.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT
text: cc is fast asleep in a chair. Hillary is in bed with her
text: new born baby, looking exhausted but blissfully happy. A
text: moment passes, CC turns, stirs, then her eyes open. The
text: first thing she sees is Hillary and the baby. She stares
text: with amazement.
dialog: ec
dialog: (soft)
dialog: It's over?
text: Hillary looks at her and nods. CC gets up and walks over,
text: looking at the baby with wonder and delight. ~
dialog: ce
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
text: A girl.
dialog: (sudden, intense)
dialog: Remember this.
dialog: 93.
dialog: : ce
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: This moment. It's the
dialog: happiest one of my entire
dialog: life. Remember it for me.
text: CAMERA MOVES IN CLOSE ON THE FACE OF THE INFANT.
text: SUPERIMPOSE THE FACE OF AN EIGHT-YEAR-OLD GIRL, which fills
text: the screen, She is wearing a half-slip on her head and
text: looks just like Hillary did as a child, except her color-
text: ing is darker. She stares grimly into CAMERA,
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (low)
dialog: I do not fear the Wizard of
dialog: Evil. I am Princess Estelle
dialog: and even he cannot resist my
dialog: Powers. I know he locked my
dialog: brother Prince Ralph in the
dialog: tower in the...
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: {shout V.0.)
dialog: Victoria Cornelia Cecilia
dialog: ‘what are you doing up there?!
text: Victoria jumps up from the mirror she was looking into.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Nothing:
scene_heading: INT, VICTORIA'S BEDROOM = DAY
text: It is a cheerful child's room filled with books, old toys,
text: drawings stuck to the walls, maps, cluttered desk, etc.
text: Victoria, who is wearing a school uniform, rips the slip off
text: her head and quickly grabs her bookbag and jacket from the bed.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I was just looking for my
dialog: jacket;
text: As she starts out of the room, she pauses in front of a
dialog: wall calendar and crosses off the day, like all the days be-
text: fore it, with a large, careful black “x", The calendar
text: is for June 1987. Written across the bottom of the month,
text: in large black letters, is "NO MORE SCHOOL?" Victoria flies
text: out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT HALLWAY - DAY
text: Tne front door is open and Hillary is wating in it. She is
dialog: 94.
text: wearing @ suit and holding a briefcase and in middle-age
text: is as beautiful as ever, however, her face is drawn and
text: tired. Victoria runs noisily down the steps, then as she
text: heads for the door she suddenly Sweeps a cat up from a chair
dialog: into her arms. :
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (hugging cat,
text: waltzing to door,
dialog: singing)
dialog: Pouncer, Pouncer the wonder cat
dialog: I'm so glad you're not a rat
dialog: or a bat
dialog: or too fat...
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (exploding)
dialog: Goddamn it, put that cat ~
dialog: down now and let's go!
text: She turns and storms out of the house. Victoria looks at
text: her with surprise, sheepishly puts the cat down and quickly
text: goes after her, shutting the door behind her.
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY'S CAR -DAY
text: As Hillary and Victoria talk, the car approaches a school
text: attached to the Episcopal Church, which is surrounded by
text: a sea of babbling children in uniforms. Hillary is slightly
text: short of breath and very pale.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: You may invite Melissa to
dialog: visit the last week in Au-
dialog: gust, not before!
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: But I thought she could stay
dialog: the whole month: I already
dialog: told her. :
text: Hillary stops the car at the curb.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Then untell her. I want
dialog: this summer at the Cape to
dialog: be peaceful. I have a flu
dialog: I can't shake, I'm tired and
dialog: I don't want to spend my time
dialog: taking care of anyone else's
dialog: children, understood?
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: But who will I play with..?
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: The same children you've been
dialog: playing with every summer since
dialog: you were born. The ones who
dialog: live there.
text: Hillary leans across, opens the passenger door and gives
text: Victoria a kiss.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I'm late.
text: Victoria gives her a wounded look, then gets out of the
text: ear. Hillary suddenly looks remorseful.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I'm sorry, puss, but I‘m
dialog: just very tired.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (slamming door)
dialog: You're always tired.
text: Hillary watches her run off into the sea of children, call-
text: ing her friends’ names, then takes a deep breath and drives
dialog: away.
scene_heading: INT. LADIES ROOM - MAIN COURTHOUSE ~ BOSTON - DAY
text: Hillary is bent over the sink Splashing her face with cold
text: water. She straightens up, locking very pale, to catch
dialog: her breath. .
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY OF COURTHOUSE - DAY .
text: Hillary walks through the crowded lobby toward the main
text: staircase leading up to the courtrooms. Another LAYWER
text: calls to her from nearby.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: Hillary: Do you have a
dialog: minute?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (walking, breath-
dialog: less)
dialog: Just. I'm due in court right
dialog: now.
text: He walks over to her and they start up the steps, CAMERA
text: FOLLOWING.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: The attorney for the drug
dialog: company called me this morn-
dialog: ing. They want to settle out
dialog: of court:
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (breathless)
dialog: I bet they do. Forget it.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: C'mon,Hillary. Get off your
dialog: high moral horse for a change.”
dialog: Going to court isn't going to
dialog: change anything, it's just going
dialog: to complicate what should be a
dialog: simple financial deal for your
dialog: client and mine.
text: During this, Hillary has been climbing the steps with a
text: pained frown on her face. With each step she becomes more
text: and more short of breath, more and more fatigued. Just as
text: she reaches the top, she suddenly stops, & terrified ex-
text: pression on her face, then she collapses onto the step,
text: gasping for air. The lawyer quickly leans down to her, fri-
dialog: ghtened.
speaker_heading: 2 0 LAWYER
dialog: Are you all right?:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (panicky, gasping)
dialog: I don't know...I ..-
text: (terrified gasps,.
dialog: starting to cry)
dialog: I can't breathe...I'm in
dialog: pain and I can't breathe...
scene_heading: INT, AMBULANCE - DAY
text: The ambulance races through the streets of Boston with its
text: siren screaming. Hillary is on a stretcher, hooked up to
text: an I.V. taking great gulps of air through an oxygen mask.
text: She has a pained, frightened, almost insensible look on her
dialog: face. .
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
text: Wearing her uniform and carrying her bookbag, Victoria
text: approaches a room with an anxious look on her face. She
text: pauses at the open door md looks inside. Hillary is
text: sleeping peacefully in the bed, her breathing: normal. She
text: is hooked up to a variety co machines which monitor her vi-
dialog: tal signs.
scene_heading: INT, HILLARY'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
text: It is £illed with flowers. Victoria walks up to the bed,
text: looks at her mother for a moment, then puts dow her book-
text: bag and straightens cut the covers. Hillary slowly opens
text: her eyes, recognizes her daughter and hugs her tightly.
dialog: 97,
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (happy, surprised)
dialog: Hi, puss, what are you do-
dialog: ing here alone?
text: She lets Victoria go and leans back into her pillows, fati-
text: gued, Victoria sits in the chair next to the bed, never
text: taking her eyes off her mother.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Aunt Vesta's talking to the
dialog: doctor.
dialog: (pause, scared)
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: HILIARY
dialog: Sure I am. I,'11 be home
dialog: by the end of the week.
text: Victoria stares at her, still scared.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: What's wrong with you?
speaker_heading: BILLARY
dialog: (reassuring)
dialog: I caught a virus, that's all.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: In your heart..?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: Who told you that?
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I heard the doctor say it -
dialog: to Aunt Vesta.
text: Hillary stares at her, then looks away,
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft, even)
dialog: Yes. I caught a virus in
dialog: my heart.
scene_heading: INT. HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL LIBRARY - DAY
text: It is packed with STUDENTS preparing for exams. Looking
text: fragile and very pale, Hillary enters the library and goes
text: to the desk where the LIBRARIAN, a man in his late twenties
text: vith? gentile face is working. The large wall clock reads
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (to Librarian)
dialog: Excuse me.
dialog: (he looks up)
dialog: I wondere@d if you could
dialog: help me. I want to see
dialog: everything you have on a
dialog: heart disease called cardic-
dialog: myopathy.
speaker_heading: LIBRARIAN
dialog: (writing)
dialog: Take a seat at one of the
dialog: tables and I'll bring you
dialog: the books.
dialog: o
scene_heading: INT. HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL LIBRARY - EVENING
text: The place is empty except for the Librarian, who is pre-
text: paring to leave for the night, and Hillary who is sitting
text: at the table, surrounded by books, still reading and stu-
text: diously making notes, The librarian glances at her as he
text: locks his desk and picks up his jacket. The wall clock
text: reads 6:00.
speaker_heading: LIBRARIAN
dialog: I'm sorry, but the library
dialog: . 48 closing. © .
text: Hillary looks up in surprise.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Oheee
dialog: (leeking at books)
dialog: I see.
text: As he walks over to her:
speaker_heading: LIBRARIAN
dialog: I can put a hold on those
dialog: books for another day if
dialog: you want.
text: She slowly looks up at him with a dazed smile as she ga-
text: thers her papers together.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Oh, thanks, but that won't
dialog: be necessary. I've got all
dialog: I need.
text: As he starts stacking the books back on the trolley, she
text: gets up, drops her glasses and papers into her purse, slips
text: on her jacket and starts walking away.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Goodnight.
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: LIBRARIAN
dialog: (working)
dialog: Goodnight.
text: She walks a few yards, then she suddenly leans heavily
text: against one of the tables and breaks into a deep, gut-
text: wrenching sob. The librarian quickly looks up in alarm,
text: then stares helplessly as Hillary sinks down into a chair,
text: puts her hands over her face and sobs with complete aban-
dialog: don.:
scene_heading: INT. RECORDING STUDIO - DAY
text: A full orchestra is backing CC up as she sings @ ballad.
text: She is thin and vibrant-looking, at the peak of her powers
text: as a performer and a woman. She screws up a lyric, apolo-
text: gizes to the producer and orchestra, then after a little
text: amiable laughter, they start up again. She sings the song
text: through to the end perfectly.
scene_heading: EXT. CC'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
text: A taxi pulls up, the DOORMAN opens the door and CC climbs
text: out. As they talk, they walk to the building entrance.
dialog: ec
dialog: Hi, Mac. Nice night, isn't
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: MAC
dialog: It certainly is, Miss Bloom.
dialog: (opening door)
dialog: By the way, congratulations
dialog: on winning the Tony.
dialog: ec
dialog: (shoving bills
dialog: in his pocket)
dialog: Thanks, Mac.
speaker_heading: MAC
dialog: (taking money
dialog: out, startled)
dialog: What's this for, Miss Bloom?
dialog: ce
dialog: {ever shoulder,
dialog: cheery)
dialog: It'll keep you honest, Mac.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY OF CC'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: A large bouquet of roses sits in a vase on the telephone
text: table. We hear a key in the lock, the door opens and CC
text: walks in. The place is much more comfortable than when
dialog: 100.
text: she lived there with John. As she takes her coat off
text: and drops it on a chair she walks over to the flowers
text: and picks up the card with excitement. As she reads it
text: the phone rings. She answers it.
dialog: ec
dialog: Hello?
dialog: (delighted)
dialog: Hillary: Just the person
dialog: I was going to call? Guess
dialog: what?: .
dialog: (pause, irritated)
dialog: Yes, I'm in love, but what
dialog: do you mean is he married?:
dialog: (pause, sharp)
dialog: I am pot drawn to tortured
dialog: affairs and yes, he's married
dialog: but he doesn't Live with his
dialog: wife he just takes his laundry
dialog: home and what the hell's the
dialog: matter with you?:
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Hillary is in bed under the covers. She looks very iil
text: ang medication litters the bedside table. CC paces the
text: room, carefully avoiding looking at Hillary.
dialog: ce
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: Why didn't you tell me
dialog: when it first happened?.
dialog: I mean, it's unbelievable
dialog: that you can just get some-
dialog: thing like this out of the
dialog: blue:
dialog: {darting her a look)
dialog: So what do you have to do?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: A few things. I've chosen
dialog: medication and rest.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft, scared)
dialog: And you'li get better..?
text: Hillary stares out the window in silence. CC suddenly
text: snatches up a bouquet of flowers from the bureau and
text: quickly walks to the door.
dialog: ec
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: I'd better get these
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: cc (cont'd.)
dialog: flowers in some water soon
dialog: or they'll die! I mean wilt:
dialog: fhey'11 wilt! Not...you know...
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: cc?
text: CC turns to look at her apprehensively from the doorway.
dialog: ec
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: I still want to take Vic~
dialog: toria to the Cape for the
dialog: summer, but we can't go alone.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft, scared)
dialog: Oh, right.
dialog: (pause, desperate)
dialog: ‘Don't worry about it:
dialog: I'll hire a nurse:
text: Hillary looks away.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: Thanks, CC, but I can do
dialog: that myself. You'd better
dialog: put those flowers in water
dialog: before they die.
scene_heading: INT, HILLARY'S HALLWAY - DAY
text: As CC walks down the hall, looking very upset, she passes
text: a table holding a phone and a number of framed photographs.
text: She suddenly stops and stares at one with surprise, drops
text: the flowers onto a chair and picks it up.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH
text: It is of CC and Hillary the day they met in Atlantic City.
text: CC quickly turns and returns to Hillary's bedroom.
scene_heading: INT, HILLARY'S BEDROOM ~ DAY
text: Hillary is staring out the window when CC walks back in.
dialog: ce .
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: I didn't know you still
dialog: had this:
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (uninterested)
dialog: Had what?
text: cc walks over and sits down next to her, holding out the
text: framed photograph.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: This picture of us from
dialog: Atlantie City.
text: Hillary glances at it, then looks back out the window.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (uninterested)
text: Victoria found it in a box.
text: Silence as-CC studies the photograph, in torment.
dialog: ce
dialog: (sudden, nervous)
dialog: You know, once I finish
dialog: the album I'm free for a
dialog: few weeks until rehearsals
dialog: start for the new show.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (remmte)
dialog: That's nice.
dialog: Pause.
dialog: ec
dialog: (sudden, tense)
dialog: Maybe I could go to the
dialog: Cape with you instead of
text: a nurse.
text: Hillary keeps her face turned away, but her eyes fill
text: with tears.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft, even)
dialog: Thanks, CC. I'd like that.
text: CC gives her a shakey smile.
dialog: ec
dialog: Hey. We're friends, aren't we?
scene_heading: EXT. HILLARY'S HOUSE - DAY
text: As Hillary, CC and Victoria, who is carrying a cat carrying
text: case, walk to Hillary's car, which is packed to bursting
text: point with things for the country, CC holds Hillary's arm
text: protectively. .
dialog: 103.
dialog: ee
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: I set the alarm on your
dialog: wristwatch so you know
dialog: when to take your pills
dialog: and...
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: Are you okay?:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Yes. Why?
dialog: ce
dialog: You made a noise.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I did not make a noise.
dialog: ce
dialog: I heard you make a noise.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I did not make a noise and
dialog: what are you doing?:
text: CC is practically picking Hillary up to put her in the
text: front seat of the car.
dialog: : ec :
dialog: Helping you into the car.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (tried patience)
dialog: That's very kind of you, CC,
dialog: but I still have the use of
dialog: my legs.
text: As CC walks around to the driver's side in a huff.
dialog: > cc
dialog: I was just being helpful.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (climbing into car,
dialog: to Victoria)
dialog: Get in the car, Victoria.
text: Victoria stands on the sidewalk looking at her with out-
dialog: rage.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: But I always sit in front
dialog: with you:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I know, but CC's driving so
dialog: you have to get in the ck.
dialog: 104.
text: victoria glances at CC with resentment, then:
speaker_heading: ‘VICTORIA
dialog: Will you sit in the back with
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: BILLARY
text: There isn't enough room.
text: Victoria hesitates, then flops into the back seat with
text: a sullen look and yanks the car door shut.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - DAY
text: As the car pulls away from the curb, Victoria suddenly
text: moves forward, squeezes her body into the space between
text: the two front seats and puts her hand on top of Hillary's
dialog: head. .
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: When we get there will you
dialog: go swimming with me, Mom?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (tight)
dialog: I can't go swimming.
dialog: (bright)
dialog: But CC will, won't you, CC?
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (sullen)
dialog: Never mind. I'11 go by myself.
dialog: ec
dialog: (stung, childish)
dialog: Be my guest: Who said I
dialog: wanted to swim anyway:
text: They sink into a silence.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (sudden, tense)
dialog: That's not very comfortable,
dialog: dear.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Riding in the car with your
text: hand on my head.
text: victoria hesitates, then pulls her hand away, drops back
text: into her seat and looks out the window unhappily.
dialog: 105.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD ALONG OCEAN - CAPE COD - DAY
text: The car moves along through the sunlight past the dunes.
scene_heading: INT, CAR - DAY
text: cC, Hillary and Victoria are singing cheerfully.
speaker_heading: GROUP
dialog: (singing)
dialog: You are my sunshine
dialog: my only sunshine
dialog: you make me happy
dialog: when skies are grey...
text: Hillary's wristwatch alarm goes off and she stops singing
text: as she takes several pills from bottles in her purse and
text: swallows them with water from a canteen. Victoria watches
text: her with an anxious expression. -
speaker_heading: CC/VICTORIA
dialog: (voices fading)
dialog: You'll never know dear
dialog: how much I love you
dialog: Please don't take
dialog: my sunshine away...
text: They all sink into their own thoughts.
scene_heading: EXT, SUMMER HOUSE - DAY
text: It is a turn-of-the-century, weathered woodframe house
text: with rambling porch and garden bordered by the beach.
text: CC and Victoria are unloading the car. CC puts a hibachi
text: on the right side of the porch.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: That doesn't go there.
text: Victoria moves it to the left side of the porch.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (brittle smile)
dialog: Thank you, dear.
text: As they go back to unpacking the car:
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: Are you staying all summer?
dialog: ce
text: It looks like it.
dialog: 106,
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: Why?
text: CC gives her a glance as she pots a deck chair in the
text: sand near the porch.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: To help your mother.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (upset)
dialog: She doesn't need you to help
dialog: her, she has me:
dialog: (in tears)
dialog: And the chair doesn't go
text: there, it goes on the porch:
text: She rips up the chair, runs up the steps, slams it down
text: on the porch and races into the house.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Ashen-faced and almost whimpering, CC takes a vial of
text: medicine from the refrigerator and fills a needle.
text: Hillary leans against the counter next to her. CC
text: turns to Hillary with the needle and freezes with fear.”
text: They stare at each other, then Hillary takes the needle
text: from her and awkwardly injects herself in the arm. CC
text: sinks into a chair and takes deep breaths, trying to keep
text: from fainting.
scene_heading: EXT. CAPE COD BEACH ~ DAY
text: Hillary sits on a low beach chair under an umbrella wear-
text: ing a sunhat, sweater and a blanket over her legs, reading
text: a book. Wearing a bathing suit and still wet from a swim,
text: victoria sits next to har on the blanket. She is looking
text: at Hillary's hands carefully.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: We have the same hands
dialog: don't we, Mom?
text: Hillary looks at her with mild surprise, Victoria holds
text: up her hand and Hillary raises hers next to it.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: {slight smile)
dialog: You're right, we do. We
dialog: have exactly the same hands.
dialog: 
dialog: 107.
text: As Hillary goes back to her book, Victoria studies her
text: own hand thoughtfully.
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Wearing a nightgown, Hillary is pulling a large, card-
text: board box down from the shelf, slightly out of breath.
text: The room is littered with boxes, some torn open and spill-
text: ing contents. Letters and photographs litter the floor.
text: An urgent look on her face, Hillary drops the box to the
text: floor and rips the top open. She starts rummaging fran-
text: tically around inside, looking for something, tossing
text: things to the floor impatiently. A moment passes, then
text: CC appears in the doorway, rubbing her eyes, suntanned
text: and wearing a huge t-shirt.
dialog: ce
dialog: What are you doing...?
dialog: It's three in the morning...
text: Hillary darts her a haunted look as she rummages in the box.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Looking for a picture:
text: Cc walks further into the room, more alert.
dialog: ec
dialog: Are you crazy?! You're
dialog: not supposed to be lifting
dialog: things and..
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (cutting in,
dialog: hysterical)
dialog: I don't care: It's a pic-
dialog: ture of my mother and I
dialog: have to find it:
text: She suddenly stops and slowly looks around the room at the
text: things strewn on the floor.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft, frightened)
dialog: I couldn't remember her hands.
text: She suddenly sits heavily on the bed and puts her hands
text: over her face. -
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: I'm so scared, CC? I'm
dialog: just so scared:
text: CC watches helplessly as Hillary rocks back and forth
dialog: 108.
text: Slightly, her face covered. CC suddenly kneels down and
text: starts going through the photographs. As she empties
text: another box onto the floor, Hillary finally lowers her
text: hands from her face and takes a deep breath. She wetches
text: Cc for a moment, then kneels down next to her and without
text: a word also starts to go through the photographs. They
text: work side by side in silence, then CC finally holds out a
dialog: picture to her, ,
dialog: ce
dialog: Is this it..?
text: Hillary takes it and stares at it.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: Yes, it is. Thank you.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY ~ MORNING
text: In her nightgown, Victoria comes out of her room and
text: walks to the bathroom, which is still steamy. She stops
text: in the doorway. A wet towel is on the floor.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Mom?! (sharp cry)
text: A second later, Hillary's bedroom door opens and she steps
text: into the hall, wearing a robe and looking very tired.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (outraged)
text: CC*s towel is on the floor!
text: Hillary looks at her as if she is insane.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Well, pick it up!
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (priggish)
dialog: If I leave my towel on the
dialog: floor you alwaya make me
dialog: pick it up myself,
text: Before Hillary can respond, CC's door slams open and she
text: stalks out. Without a word, she brushes past Victoria,
text: tips the towél up, folds it and hangs it on the rack.
dialog: ce
dialog: {acid smile)
dialog: Happy, dear?!
dialog: 109.
text: She stalks back into her room and slams the door.
text: victoria enters the bathroom and also slams the door.
text: Hillary rests her head against the doorframe with a groan.
text: She looks very ill.
scene_heading: EXT. MEADOW - CAPE COD - DAY
text: Filled with wildflowers, bordered by a stream and woods
text: and the sea visible in the distance, it is an idyllic spot.
text: Hillary and Victoria are on the blanket playing a board
text: game.while CC unloads a picnic basket.
dialog: ce
dialog: Egg salad for you, Hill?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Yes, please.
text: Victoria snatches the sandwhich from CC.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I'll give it to her.
text: They glare at each other, then as Victoria hands the
text: sandwhich to her mother, CC pulls another one out of the
dialog: basket.
dialog: ce
dialog: (hard) .
dialog: Here's your chicken sal-
dialog: ad, Victoria, dear.
text: Victoria looks at her.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: But I don't like chicken
dialog: salad.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (grim)
dialog: When I asked you what you
dialog: wanted you said chicken
dialog: salad,
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I did not.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What difference does it
dialog: make? You like egg salad
dialog: so take mine.
text: Victoria and CC ignore her, fully engaged in battle now,
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: You dia too: You said
dialog: chicken salad on wheat:
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I didn't! I just said chic-
dialog: ken on wheat:
dialog: (petulant)
dialog: I don't like it when it's
dialog: chopped up.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (exploding)
dialog: What the hell difference
dialog: does that make?! Chicken's
dialog: chicken, mayo's mayo...
text: Hillary is on her feet.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (shrieking)
dialog: I can't take this anymore:
dialog: I've had enough of this
dialog: endless bickering and...
text: She suddenly puts her hand to her chest and. leans her
text: weight against Victoria as she slowly sinks to her knees
text: on the blanket, a terrified expression on her face.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: . _ (soft, gasping)
dialog: My chest hurts...I can't
dialog: breathe...it's bad, CC...
text: CC stares at her, then suddenly grabs her purse and rips
text: the keys out.
dialog: ce
dialog: (to Victoria)
dialog: Can you start a car?:
text: Victoria neds, her eyes wide with fear and shock,
text: and CC throws the keys at her.
dialog: ce
dialog: Do it:
dialog: (embracing Hillary)
dialog: Try to stand up. I can't
dialog: earry you.
text: As Victoria runs to the car,. jumps in and starts it,
text: CC half-drags Hillary to the car, helps her into the
text: back seat, then slides into the front, shoving Victoria
text: to the side. The car skids along the dirt track as CC
text: pulls the door shut.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - DAY
text: As the car pulls onto the road and takes off, victoria
dialog: lll.
text: climbs into the back and puts her arms around her
text: mother, Crying. Hillary is breathing with great diffi-
text: culty and_locks as if she is in great pain.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - EVENING
text: Victoria sits alone, looking very young and very lost. A
text: moment passes, then CC appears in the doorway looking ex-
dialog: hausted.
dialog: ec
dialog: She's fine, Victoria.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Can I see her..?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: The doctor said: tomorrow.
text: She's sleeping now.
text: They stare at each other, then CC suddenly holds out her
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Let's go home.
text: Victoria hesitates for a moment, then gets up and slowly
text: walks over to her. She pauses, then:
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (soft)
dialog: I'm sorry.
dialog: ec
dialog: I know. So am If.
dialog: (faint smile)
dialog: You're like me. You get
dialog: mean when you're scared.
text: Victoria stares at her, then with a small sigh slips her
text: hand into CC's outstretched one with relief and trust.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: As CC and Victoria walk down the hall hanc in hand, Vic-
text: toria suddenly looks at her. :
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Is my mother going to die?
text: CC quickly looks at her, then smiles reassuringly.
dialog: ce
dialog: What are you talking about?
dialog: She's sick because her medi-
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: ce (cont'd.)
dialog: cation's not right, that's
dialog: all! She'll be home in a
dialog: couple of days:
text: Victoria looks away with relief. As they exit the build-
text: ing, CC is fighting back tears.
scene_heading: EXT. SHORELINE - LOW TIDE - SUNSET
text: Wearing sweaters, their pants rolled up, CC and Victoria
text: are clamming. SEVERAL OTHER PEOPLE are doing the same
text: thing a short distance away.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (excited, embarr-
dialog: assed laugh)
dialog: I can't do that: -
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Why not? You think you'll
dialog: get arrested?
text: Victoria glances at the other people with a shy laugh.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Those people will see me:
dialog: ec
dialog: So what? We're not asking
dialog: them to pay, are we? C'mon.
text: She suddenly straightens up, sandy hands clutching clams.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (singing)
dialog: First you put your two knees
dialog: close up tight...
dialog: (stern)
dialog: I seem to be the only one
dialog: singing:
text: Victoria glances at the people with an excited laugh, then .
text: looks back at CC with bright eyes. She shyly starts sins~
text: ing along with her, copying her movements.
speaker_heading: CC/VICTORIA
dialog: (singing, dancing)
dialog: Then you swing them to the left
dialog: and you swing them to the right
dialog: you waik around the floor
dialog: kind of nice and light
dialog: and then you twist around
dialog: and twist around...
dialog: 113.
text: Victoria twists so violently she loses her footing and
text: falls into the wet sand, laughing loudly.
dialog: ce
dialog: (singing, laughing)
dialog: with all of your might...
text: Soaked and covered with sand, Victoria quickly gets up
text: and continues with the song and dance, happy and noisy
text: now, completely unself-conscious.
speaker_heading: CC/VICTORIA
dialog: (singing, dancing)
dialog: Spread your loving arms
dialog: way out in space...
scene_heading: EXT. PORCH ~ HILLARY'S SUMMER HOUSE - SUNSET
text: Hillary sits in a chair watching CC and Victoria on the
text: beach. Their voices drift tinnily up from the water's
dialog: edge.
speaker_heading: CC/VICTORIA
dialog: . (laughing, dancing)
dialog: And then you do the Eagle Rock
dialog: with style and grace...
text: Hillary suddenly gets up, goes into the house and slams
text: the screen door behind her. CC and Victoria, silhouetted
text: against a brilliant sunset, continue dancing happily in
text: the sand, their voices drifting. up to the empty porch.
speaker_heading: CC/VICTORIA
dialog: (singing, dancing)
dialog: You put your left foot out
dialog: and bring it back
dialog: and that's what I call
dialog: Balling The Jack.
scene_heading: INT, SUMMER HOUSE - LIVING ROOM ~ MORNING
text: Hillary, wearing a nightgown, is stretched out on the
text: couch, under a blanket in the semi-darkened room reading
text: a book. Pills litter a nearby table. Tne phone is ring-
text: ing 0.S., it is answered, then we hear: :
dialog: ce
dialog: (shout 0.8.)
dialog: Hillary: It's for you!
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (reading, grim) .
dialog: Tell whoever it is I'm not
dialog: here,
dialog: 114.
text: A moment passes, then CC walks in from the hallway wearing
text: a bathing suit and carrying a towel, suntan lotion and mag-
dialog: azines.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (tense smile) .
dialog: You make me say that to
dialog: everyone. Your friends
dialog: will think I'm holding you
dialog: prisoner.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (reading)
dialog: I don't care what they think.
text: We can hear children playing outside. CC stares at her
text: for a moment, then heads for the door. Just as she reaches
dialog: it,
text: she turns back.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: We're going down to the
dialog: dock to buy steamers later.
dialog: Want to come?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (reading, sharp)
dialog: You know I can't walk that
dialog: far.
dialog: ec
dialog: I'll drive.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (reading)
dialog: I'd rather not.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: ‘(belligerent)
dialog: Okay, then why don't you
dialog: get dressed and sit out-
dialog: side on the beach with us.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (cold)
dialog: T‘m happy here.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (gram)
dialog: It's a beaut:fu1 day.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I don't care,
dialog: ce
dialog: (explediag)
dialog: Okay, stay in: But will
dialog: 115.
dialog: cc fcont'd.)
dialog: you at least get dressed?:
dialog: You haven't been out of
dialog: that nightgown for over
dialog: a week:
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (throwing down
dialog: book, furious)
dialog: So what?: Who the hell
dialog: are you?, The clothes
dialog: police?:
dialog: (getting up)
dialog: Just leave me alone, okay?
dialog: That's all I want: To be
dialog: left fucking alone:
text: Breathing harshly, she walks out of the room. A moment
text: later, we hear her bedroom door slam shut. CC hesitates,
text: then goes after her.
scene_heading: INT. HILLARY'S BEDROOM - MORNING
text: Hillary sits in a chair by the window staring out at tne
text: sea, her face. expressionless. There is a knock on the
text: door, but she doesn't respond. A second later, CC walxs
text: into the room.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Listen, Hill, I'm sorry I
dialog: blew up like that. =
dialog: know how hard this is for..
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (shrieking)
dialog: No, you don't:
dialog: (spinning around,
dialog: hard) :
dialog: You don't know what this i:
dialog: like at all: My chances of
dialog: seeing my child grow up are
dialog: next to nothing: My chances
dialog: of living a normal life have
dialog: vanished: My chances of even
dialog: living a few more years aren't
dialog: worth more than a two dollar
dialog: bet! Don't say you know what
dialog: that's like because you don't!
dialog: You're still in the land of the
dialog: living:
dialog: ce
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: So are you!
text: They stare at each other.
dialog: 116.
dialog: ce
dialog: (fierce)
dialog: You're not dead yet, Hillary,
dialog: go stop living as if you are:
text: cc slams out of the room. Hillary stares at ‘the door,
text: showing no traces of emotion, then turns and looks back
text: out the window.
scene_heading: EXT. .SUMMER HOUSE - KITCHEN PORCH - DUSK
text: CC and Victoria are sitting on the steps snapping beans
text: while they watch CC give an interview to a smarmy, over~
text: dressed WOMAN interviewer on a amall television which is
text: propped in the open kitchen window. CC watches with an
text: anxious"expression on her face. Victoria is fascinated.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: (sincere)
dialog: Tell us the truth, CC.
dialog: Pull the stops out. We
dialog: know the star, but who is
dialog: the person. Who jis CC Bloom.
dialog: ec
dialog: (sick matter)
dialog: Don't do it; fool, don't do it...
dialog: ec
dialog: (on t.v.,
dialog: thoughtful)
dialog: Oh, Lala, you have no idea
dialog: how many times I have asked
dialog: myself that same question.
dialog: Who is CC Bloom. I suppose
dialog: first and foremost CC Bloom...
dialog: feels things! Deeply. cc is
dialog: a deeply feeling person and be-
dialog: cause of that she is deeply emo-
text: tional. Deeply feeling, deeply
dialog: emotional...
dialog: (wistful smile)
dialog: Can these things exist separately,
dialog: Lala? I don't think so.
text: cc groans.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: I'd like to know more about
dialog: this duality, CC, but we've.
dialog: run out of time. Thank you
dialog: for joining me on Star Talk...
dialog: (to audience)
dialog: And until tomorrow night
dialog: this is Lala Lake saying don't
dialog: judge, keep sharing.
dialog: 117.
text: As the commercial comes on, CC gets up to turn off the
dialog: tev.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (anxious)
dialog: So? Wnat'd you think?
text: Victoria shrugs slightly, her eyes averted.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (matter)
dialog: I don't know...
text: c¢ turns to look at her.
dialog: ce
dialog: Please. I want the truth.
text: Victoria leoks up with a shrug.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: You sounded dumb.
text: CC's eyes become narrow and flinty as she snaps the t.v.
text: off with a hard twist.
dialog: ec
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: Yeah, well, I gave that
dialog: interview last year and
dialog: you have a lot to learn,
dialog: you know? Giving inter-
dialog: views isn't...
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Mom:
text: She is looking past CC with a happy smile. CC quickly
text: turns to see Hillary standing shyly in the doorway, dressed
text: in casual clothes, her hair washed and shining, a little
text: make-up on her face.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Hi, puss,
text: She darts CC a sheepish smile, then looks back at Victoria
text: as she walks out onto the porch.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: I thought I'd help with
dialog: dinner. What can I do?
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Beans: Sit here:
text: cc watches Hillary as she walks over and takes Victoria’
text: seat on the steps, then as she starts snapping beans CC
text: goes back to her seat on the steps and does the same.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Can I make braids?
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Sure.
text: As Victoria happily starts braiding her mother's hair,
text: cc's and Hillary's eyes meet for a moment. Hillary's
dialog: glance is a thank you.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH - AFTERNOON
dialog: 118.
text: On the shore we can see Victoria playing with a few FRIENDS.
text: CC and Hillary are sitting under an umbrella playing cards,
text: cc in her bathing suit, Hillary in shorts and t-shirt.
text: They play in silence for a moment, then CC smiles slightly
text: to herself. Hillary glances at her as she discards.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Why are you smiling..?
dialog: ce
dialog: Do you remember that |
dialog: Christmas we spent in the
dialog: loft? ~
speaker_heading: HILIARY
dialog: (frowning, vague)
dialog: Sure...we had a tree, dida't
dialog: we..?
speaker_heading: cc
text: A stick.
dialog: (shaking head)
dialog: I was just remembering those
text: stinking Christmas carols.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: What Christmas carols?
dialog: oc
dialog: What Christmas carols?:
dialog: The ones you forced me to
dialog: sing every night.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: t didn't force you: You loved
dialog: te
dialog: ec
dialog: By the time we hit Good King
dialog: Wenceslaus for the fifth time
dialog: I was ready for a draino cocktail:
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Gin and game, as usual. :
dialog: (smug)
dialog: You will never beat me
dialog: at cards.
text: cc gives her a look as she gets up, tosses down her
text: ecards and grabs her bathing cap.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: You make things up as
dialog: you go along, you know?
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (putting on cap)
dialog: No, I don't, so you had
dialog: better be very nice to me.
dialog: (threatening)
dialog: I know everytnang there is
dialog: to know about you, my friend,
dialog: arm my memory is long. My
dialog: memory is very, very long.
text: As CC turns and heads for the water, all traces of play-
text: fulness vanish from Hillary's face. She watches CC go
text: with a far-away look in her eyes.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft murmur}
dialog: I know. I'm counting on it.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON DESK CALENDAR
text: The date is December 1, 1987. As a child's hand comes
text: into frame and rips the page off, revealing December 2,
dialog: 1987, we hear: :
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (exasperated V.0.)
dialog: Have you lost your mind?:
dialog: What is all this stuff?!
scene_heading: CAMERA PULLS BACK
scene_heading: INT. VICTORIA'S BEDROOM - =AY
text: The sky outside is very grey. Two overflowing suitcases
text: are open on Victoria's bed. As Victoria tosses the cal-
text: endar page into the trash next to her desk and walks over
text: to the bed, Hillary turns to her with despair. She is
text: dressed casually in a large sweater ané tights and although
text: she is still beautiful, her looks are beginning to show signs
text: ef chronic ill-health - dark carcles around the eyes, deep
dialog: pallor, ete. °
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: My clothes.
dialog: . 120.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: {sorting through
dialog: bag)
dialog: You're going to New York
dialog: for two days in December:
dialog: (holding up bikini)
dialog: Why are you bringing this?:
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: You never know what might
dialog: come up.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (holding up tennis
dialog: racket)
dialog: And this?:
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I told CC I'd teach her how
dialog: to play.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Not this weekend. She's giv-
text: ing a concert at Carnegie Hall.
text: Hillary overturns one of the suitcases onto the bed and
text: drops it to the floor.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Get my brown carry-on bag
dialog: -. €rom the hall closet. That's
dialog: Bll you're taking.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: But..
speaker_heading: : HILLARY
dialog: No buts. Get it.
text: As Victoria turns to leave, Hillary suddenly stops and
text: stares out the window, her face lighting up like a child's.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Oh, Victoria, look: It's
dialog: snowing:
text: They quickly walk to the window and look out at the snow,
text: which is beginning to fall heavily.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (soft)
dialog: I love the first snow.
text: She suddenly turns, propelling Victoria to the door as
text: she rushes back to the bed.
dialog: 121.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: Get going: The taxi will
dialog: be here in less than five
dialog: minutes:
text: Victoria flies out of the room and we hear her banging
text: around in the hallway. Hillary looks at the mess on the
text: bed, then starts sorting through it. She laughs slightly
text: as she pulls a pair of hiking boots out of the pile, then
text: she suddenly stiffens, &@ strange, startled look on her
text: face. She drops the boots and reaches out for the bedpost,
text: knocking most of the clothes to the floor in the process,
text: clings to the bedpost for a moment, then slowly begins
text: to slide to the floor, gasping for air as she fails.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (choked cry)
dialog: Victoria...
text: Victoria appears in the doorway clutching a suitcase. She
text: stops and stares at her mother with stunned horror as Hillary
text: hits the floor, then she drops the bag and races over to her.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: , (terrified cry)
dialog: Mom?.
text: Hillary has lapsed into unconsciousness. Victoria sits
text: on the floor next to her and lifts her head into her lap,
text: sobbing with terror, rocking back and forth.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (erying, frantic)
dialog: Please get up, Mom, please,
dialog: I don't know what to do,
dialog: please get up, oh please
dialog: get up.
scene_heading: EXT, STREET IN BOSTON - EARLY MORNING - THE PRESENT
text: A taxi moves cautiously along the snow-shrouded street.
scene_heading: INT. TAXI - EARLY MORNING
text: CC, looking exhaustec, sits stiffly in the back seat.
text: Silence except for the rattle of the chains on the wheels
text: and the dispatcher's voice crackling over the radio.
text: The taxi pulls to a halt. CC doesn't move.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: This is it. Boston General
text: cC sits very still for a moment longer, then shoves some
text: large bills into the driver's hand.
dialog: 122.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: But this is way too much:
text: CC is out of the taxi. The door slams shut.
scene_heading: EXT, STREET OUTSIDE OF BOSTON GENERAL HOSPITAL - EARLY
speaker_heading: MORNING
text: cc stands staring at the hospital entrance with a fear-
text: fal expression on her face, then she finally takes a deep
text: breath and goes inside.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL LOBBY - EARLY MORNING
text: As CC walks toward the elevators, she passes a flower shop.
text: She backtracks and goes inside. Through the window we
text: see her pick out a bunch of long-stemmed yellow roses, pay
text: for them, then return to the lobby. She reaches the
text: elevator just as the doors are closing and slips through.
text: They slam shut.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - EARLY MORNING
text: CC exits the elevator and walks to the nurses’ station.
text: There is no one around. She looks around and spots the
text: entrance to the cardiac care unit and walks over to it.
text: Through the glass door, clearly marked NO ADMITTANCE we
text: can see cubicles containing beds and elaborate equipment.
text: A few of the beds are occupied. CC hesitates, then walks
dialog: in.
scene_heading: INT, CARDIAC CARE UNIT - EARLY MORNING
text: An anxious expression on her face she walks along, glancing
text: in the cubicles, then stops in front of one. Hillary is
text: in the bed, under the covers, slightly turned away. A
text: resuscitator is pushed to the side. CC hesitates, then
text: steps .inside.
scene_heading: INT. CUBICLE - EARLY MORNING
dialog: ec .
dialog: (soft, anxious)
dialog: Hill..? It's me...
text: No response. CAMERA MOVES WITH CC as she rounds the bottom
text: of the bed and comes up the other side to see Hillary's face
text: more clearly. Hillary's eyes are closed and she looks
text: utterly peaceful.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Hill...?
text: She suddenly stops and stares, then her fingers go limp
dialog: 123.
text: and the flowers slide out of her hand to the floor.
dialog: ce
dialog: (soft, stunned)
dialog: Oh, Hill...
text: A NURSE has walked up to the entrance to the cubicle.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: You will have to leave
dialog: right now: Didn't you
dialog: see that no admittance
dialog: sign on the...
dialog: ec
dialog: (sharp ery)
dialog: Get out:
text: The nurse hesitates, then backs out of the cubicle.
text: CC's eyes are riveted to Hillary's face as she moves
text: closer, then reaches out and gently touches her hair.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: {soft, amazed)
dialog: What will I do...?
text: She suddenly sinks heavily in the chair next to the bed
text: and takes her friend's lifeless hand, lowering her face
text: to the edge of the bed.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (deep sob)
dialog: What will I do without
dialog: you..?
scene_heading: EXT, CEMETARY - BOSTON - DAY
text: Hillary's family and friends stand around an open grave,
text: next to her flower draped coffin, while an episcopal
text: PRIEST performs the burial service. CC stands with
text: Victoria, hand in hand. They both look as if they are
text: in shock. Snow is falling heavily again.
scene_heading: INT, HILLARY'S STUDY - DAY
text: CLOSE ON A WOMAN'S HAND holding a letter covered with a
text: childish scrawl. Other letters, written by a child,
text: are in her lap. The only sound is the ticking of a grand-
text: father clock. CAMERA PULLS BACK. CC sits at Hillary's
text: desk, which is covered with papers, staring off into space.
scene_heading: INT. VICTORIA'S ROOM - DAY
text: A tray of untouched food sits on the bedside table. Fully
text: dressed in the clothes she wore to the cemetary, Victoria
text: is stretched out on the bed, face down, completely cried
dialog: 124.
text: out. One arm is wrapped tightly around her cat. A
text: moment passes and there is a knock on the door. She doesn't
text: move. A second later, the door opens and cC walks in.
text: She looks at Victoria in silence for a moment, then walks
text: over and sits on the edge of the bed. She reaches out
text: and touches Victoria's coat.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft)
dialog: That's wet. If you don't
dialog: take it off, you'll get
text: a cold.
text: Silence. CC looks away, at a loss, then looks back.
dialog: ec
dialog: Iwas just going through
dialog: your mother's papers,
dialog: (silence)
dialog: It's amazing..I found letters
dialog: I wrote to her over thirty
dialog: years ago...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I couldn't believe it. She
dialog: saved every single one.
text: Silence. CC takes a deep breath.
dialog: ec
dialog: In her will she said she
dialog: wanted you to live with me.
text: Pause, then Victoria finally turns to look at her, her
text: eyes red and swollen from erying. CC reaches out and
text: brushes her hair away from her face.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (soft, kind)
dialog: You don't have to do it
dialog: if you don't want to. Your
dialog: Aunt Vesta wants you, every
dialog: body wants you.
text: Victoria stares at her.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (lew)
dialog: Can't I live here, in my
dialog: house?
dialog: Pause.
dialog: ce
dialog: (soft)
dialog: No.
dialog: 125.
text: Victoria looks away. Silence.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (sudden, low)
dialog: Does my father know she died..?
text: cc stiffens with surprise.
dialog: ce
dialog: I don't know.
dialog: (cautious)
dialog: I thought you didn't see him.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (lew)
dialog: I know who he is. I saw him
text: in the street twice.
dialog: cc.
dialog: (anxious to please)
dialog: I could call him if you want.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: . (quick)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: {soft}
dialog: Yeah, well, maybe someday..
dialog: (sighing)
dialog: If you want to stay in Bos-
dialog: ton, Victoria, I'11 under-
dialog: stand...
dialog: (looking away, at
dialog: a loss)
dialog: I mean, I don't know what
dialog: kind of mother I'd make,
dialog: You wouldn't want to know
dialog: what goes on inside my hea
dialog: sometimes...and I'm very sel-
dialog: fish, you know..?
dialog: (soft, stunned)
dialog: I don't know what she was
dialog: thinking of when she picked
dialog: me..
dialog: 
dialog: (quick, reassuring)
dialog: Not that I don't want to
dialog: do it! There's nothing I
dialog: want to do more than be with
dialog: you:
text: Pause, Victoria slowly turns to look at her again.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (low)
dialog: If I go with you, can Tt
dialog: 126.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA (cont'd.)
dialog: bring my cat...? .
text: CC looks away as her eyes fill with tears.
dialog: ce
dialog: (low)
dialog: Oh, my God, of course
dialog: you can bring your cat.
dialog: You can bring anything
dialog: you want.
scene_heading: INT. VICTORIA'S BEDROOM - MORNING
text: Most of her things are carefully packed away in boxes.
text: She is sitting in a small chair looking around the room
text: with wide, frightened eyes, wearing her coat, hat and
text: boots. Through the window we can see that the street is
text: covered by a deep layer of snow, the parked cars are
text: half-buried and more snow is falling. Her eat is curled up
text: in her lap. A moment passes, then:
dialog: ec
dialog: (v.0. from down-
dialog: stairs)
dialog: It's time to go, Victoria.
dialog: Victoria
dialog: case, t
dialog: up the case
text: itates, then gets up, puts the cat in ‘his
text: one last, hungry look around her room, picks
text: and a small suitcase and walks out.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT, FRONT HALLWAY - MORNING
text: CO waits at the open front door in her fur coat and boots,
text: two suitcases in her hands, as Victoria comes down the
text: stairs. The furniture has been covered by dust sheets
text: and the place has an abandoned look to it.
dialog: . cc
text: The road isn't clear so
dialog: we'll have to walk a couple
dialog: of blocks for a taxi. Can
dialog: you make it? :
text: Victoria nods,’ pauses at the door to look around ence with
text: confused eyes, then she turns and walks out. CC also hesi-
text: tates, looking around the hall and remembering happier times
text: in that house, then she walks out and pulls the door shut
text: behind her, The lock clicks.
scene_heading: EXT, HOUSE - DAY
text: CAMERA FOLLOWING, CC and Victoria come down the front steps,
text: turn out the gate and start picking their way along the
text: snowy street in silence. CC finally glances at Victoria,
text: who is withdrawn and depressed.
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: (sudden)
dialog: Your mother and I met
dialog: in Atlantic City when we
dialog: were your age, did you know
dialog: that?
text: Victoria doesn't even look at her.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Yes.
dialog: ec
dialog: . (bright)
dialog: Iwas sitting under the
dialog: boardwalk smoking a cigar~
dialog: ette...
text: vietoria looks at her with interest for the first time.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Mom didn't tell me that.
dialog: You amoked when you were
dialog: my age?:
speaker_heading: cc
dialog: Yeah. I quit when I was
dialog: twelve. Anyway, I just
dialog: finished doing the matinee
dialog: at the Tony Grant Kiddie Show...
text: CAMERA STOPS FOLLOWING. As they walk on through the snowy
text: street their figures grow smaller, their voices indistinct.
dialog: ec
dialog: What song was I singing
dialog: then...oh, I remember:
dialog: My Mama number.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: What was that?
dialog: cc : .
text: (laughing, singing) ‘
dialog: You gotta see Mama
dialog: every night
dialog: or you can't see Mama at all...
text: Victoria says something to her, but we can't hear it.
text: cC says something else and Victoria laughs slightly,
text: almost against her will. As they walk on, now deep in
dialog: conversation:
scene_heading: INT. MARLBORO BLENHEIM HOTEL - DAY
text: Hillary, as a child, quickly locks back over hex shoulder
text: as she moves away.
dialog: 128.
speaker_heading: HILLARY
dialog: (bright, excited)
dialog: Be sure to keep in touch,
dialog: cc, okay?!
text: cc, as a child, stares after her as she vanishes.
dialog: ec
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Well, sure...we're
dialog: friends, aren't we...?
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
