speaker_heading: DR. BEAN
dialog: By
dialog: Richard Curtis
dialog: And
dialog: Robin Driscoll
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. BOARDROOM - DAY
text: A very grand room, with lots of wood and some very famous portraits round the
dialog: walls.
text: A group of grave gentlemen and gentlewomen. They are the trustees of the
text: National Gallery. LORD WALTON, a very grand man, sits at the table head. To
text: his right sits his assistant, GARETH. All are deep in thought. LORD WALTON
text: fidgets with a pencil on the table. He raises his head as though about to
text: speak. Everyone looks up expectantly. And... LORD WALTON goes back to
text: fidgeting. So does everyone else.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: CREDIT. POLYGRAM &amp; WORKING TITLE PRESENT.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. BOARD ROOM - DAY
text: The scene is as silent and static as we left it Last... then:
speaker_heading: GARETH
dialog: I suppose we could just sack him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MR BEAN'S STREET. DAY
text: Mr BEAN comes out of his house, ready to face the world-
text: He walks up the street, tutting slightly at a 'NO PARKING' sign he passes.
text: The street is totally car-free except for a very visible lime green mini. A
text: policeman strolls by and glances down at a pair of legs sticking out from
text: under it, next to a toolbox. He moves on, satisfied that someone is mending
dialog: their car.
text: BEAN approaches the car and whips out the fake legs he left there. He then
text: unlocks the big padlock that secures the car door, pops the fake legs inside,
text: fiddles with something else in the back seat, and drives away at a frightening
text: speed with a smug look on his face.
text: The Theme Music - big and dramatic - begins, as do the rest of the credits.
text: BEAN gaily motors on - then unexpectedly the sweeping theme tune jumps, as if
dialog: it has hit a scratch: the cinema audience should be worried there's a sound
dialog: fault.
text: BEAN comes to a street full of sleeping policemen ~ he goes at them at quite a
text: lick - and every time he shoots over one of the bumps, the theme tune jumps
dialog: violently.
text: BEAN looks a little annoyed into the back seat - we now see the cause of the
text: problem. Instead of having a car radio, BEAN has an old record player
text: strapped into the back seat, playing the theme tune.
text: On he drives, through empty streets - then JOLT - he's reached the glorious
text: familiarity of Central London, Big Ben and all - but heels now in dreadful
dialog: traffic.
text: Heels not happy. He looks to the left and sees a very thin alleyway. He
text: takes out a metal comb from his pocket and, using it like a bomber's sight-
text: line-checker, measures the front of his car and the width of the alley. He 'S
text: satisfied - does a 90-degree turn - and shoots down the alley. It is such a
text: perfect fit that sparks fly from the door handles as they graze the walls.
text: But at the end of the alley, the traffic's just as bad. BEAN notices he's
text: outside Harrods. There's a tail-coated Security Guard at the 'front door.
text: BEAN watches him stroll a bit down the street - and takes his chance. He
text: turns and drives straight through the double doors, into the store.
dialog: 2
scene_heading: INT. HARRODS. DAY.
text: BEAN and his car whizz through the ground floor, past perfume counters and
text: leather glove racks.
text: CUT TO a Security Guard. As he passes one of the counters, BEAN's little car
text: just shoots behind him. The Guard continues through the Children's section
text: there are giant elephants and teddies, children's size cars, then two huge
text: plastic tractors - and then, stock still, strangely in harmony actually, the
text: Lime Green Mini with BEAN in it. The Guard walks straight past.
text: The moment he is gone, BEAN shoots off again - but, damn!, spies another Guard
text: and is forced to turn and drive down some very steep stairs indeed. The theme
text: song goes CRAZY as the record player jumps.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: 6 people waiting at a gilded lift. They hear a strange sound, and turn to see
text: what it is. In fact, it's coming from inside the lift. When the lift doors
text: open, out shoots the Mini through the double doors and back into the street.
dialog: 3
scene_heading: EXT. KNIGHTSBRIDGE. DAY.
text: Out in the street, BEAN is faced by an accident. There are flashing lights, a
text: crumpled car, suggestions of hurt passengers. BEAN looks concerned.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE STRAND. DAY.
text: An Ambulance roars through the traffic. It reaches its hospital, turns off,
text: and there, right smack behind it is the Mini. Cut in to see BEAN, smiling
text: broadly. He whizzes into Trafalgar Square, maybe even across it, sending
text: pigeons and tourists flying, and parks directly outside the statuesque
text: National Gallery. Of course, there's not another car there. Just the Gallery
dialog: and the mini.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. NATIONAL GALLERY - DAY
text: BEAN gets out of the car, takes out his bag - thinks a little, opens it and
text: takes out a "Doctor on Call' sign. To re-enforce it, he puts a bone in the
text: back window and a skull of the front seat. Happy with the arrangement, he re-
text: locks the padlock and sets off smiling up the big, stairs to work.
text: As he does so, pan up the building, and into the window of the room where that
dialog: Board meeting was taking place.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. BOARDROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: GARETH
dialog: Look, I don't hate the man but ...
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: I know, Gareth. It's the mental strain he inflicts on us all.
dialog: How is Professor Bradbury
text: A grand gentleman, MR MORRISON, pipes up.
speaker_heading: I'm MORRISON
text: Heels got the feeling back in his fingers - but his hands are
text: still stapled together.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Mmmm, and how far are we with the computer, Hubert?
dialog: 4
speaker_heading: HUBERT
text: Timothy is loading the final catalogue data as we speak,
dialog: Milord. An awful thing to say, but when the program's up and
dialog: running our, Mr. Bean will become a little less than ....
dialog: useful?
text: A glimmer of hope.
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. PORTRAIT SECTION - DAY
text: BEAN wanders past three or four portraits and mimics the characters in them.
text: He passes a guard.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: (not looking up from his book)
dialog: Morning, Bean.
text: The GUARD sighs with boredom. He gets this from BEAN every day. As Bean
text: moves on, he treads on the heel of a tourist's shoe. It comes off- BEAN moves
text: on blithely.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. CARTOON ROOM ENTRANCE - DAY
text: BEAN is passing the very special room where Leonardo Da Vinci's cartoon, 'The
text: Virgin and Child', hangs, preserved by a very dim artificial light. There are
text: silhouettes of a few tourists in the room reverently studying the work,
text: listening to a female GALLERY GUIDE.
text: BEAN dips into his pocket for his identity badge and in so doing brings out a
text: coin. The coin drops and rolls into the special room. BEAN follows it into
dialog: the darkness.
speaker_heading: GALLERY GUIDE
dialog: (hushed)
dialog: ... by Leonardo Da Vinci. As you can see, the special light
dialog: in here goes some way to protect the drawing from
dialog: photodisintegration caused by gamma ...
text: The camera stays outside the room with the picture in view. We hear the
text: squeak of a tiny door open, then a click. The room is suddenly flooded in
text: blazing white light. The onlookers gasp in horror.
dialog: 5
text: BEAN re-emerges from the room with his precious coin. As an afterthought he
text: pops his hand round the doorway and turns off the light. He scuttles away.
text: The GALLERY GUIDE shakes her head in total exasperation.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. BOARDROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: GARETH
dialog: Maybe it would be simpler to pack all our paintings onto trucks
dialog: and move the entire National Gallery somewhere else. And not tell
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: HUBERT
dialog: Seconded. We could all move to France.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: All those in favour.
text: They all raise their hands wildly.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Come on - settle down everyone.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. ELEVATOR - DAY
text: BEAN stands in the elevator silently with four other people. He gives himself
text: a long squirt of breathfreshener. Then offers it to the others, who politely
text: refuse him. So he stands still again. Pause. BEAN then smells something
text: unpleasant. He leans and has a little sniff of the person to his left. All
text: right there. Then he sniffs to his right, and reels at what he smells. He
text: again takes out the breath freshener, and forces it upon VINCENT, an elderly
text: gentleman, who is mortified.
text: At this moment the elevator stops - BEAN and VINCENT get out and the camera
text: follows VINCENT as he heads for the boardroom door and enters. He is another
text: trustee. This dialogue is heard from behind the closed door.
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: I'm sorry I'm late.
speaker_heading: GARETH
dialog: Why can't we just give him the boot for crying out loud?!
dialog: 6
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: Steady on, old man. I only ...
speaker_heading: GARETH
dialog: Not you, you idiot.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. CORRIDOR - DAY
text: BEAN, with cup of tea, walks along a corridor. He can't not interfere for
text: tidiness sake. One empty room he switches off the light. Another he shuts
dialog: the door.
text: He passes a computer room, with an open door where a big man is busily typing
text: in a programme - BEAN looks at him snootily and heads on.
text: He approaches the door to his office. A sign reads: 'STORAGE &amp; CATALOGUE'.
text: There is a huge padlock on the door. BEAN takes out a big key and enters his
dialog: domain.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. STORAGE OFFICE - DAY.
text: BEAN enters. He's been here for years and made it his own. It's an odd
text: little world. There's a framed picture of Shirley Bassey on his desk and
text: Airfix planes hang from the ceiling. Also a large cosy armchair and a T.V.
text: A pleasant Man in a suit, around 40, breezes in.
speaker_heading: SUIT MAN
dialog: Ah Bean, I'm looking for a painting by Van Hocht. Still Life.
dialog: Circa 1670. Can do?
text: BEAN nods. This is what BEAN likes to do best. The camera follows as he
text: turns sees the extraordinary sight behind him...
text: His office is just a tiny corner of a massive storage room, hundreds of feet
text: high and long, the walls completely full of rack after rack of stored
text: paintings. At the end of the room, we can see hundreds of sculptures: busts,
dialog: modern abstracts, men on horses, classical maidens, Rodins, the lot. It's
text: like the giant storehouse at the end of 'Raiders of the Lost Ark.
dialog: 7
text: BEAN sets off into it in his own eccentric way. He knows exactly where heels
text: going. He climbs a ladder, like you find in a library - then pushes himself
text: off, and whizzes the entire length of the room on slippery wooden runners.
text: He has now reached the sculpture area, but the painting heels looking for is
text: on the other side. He crosses the room by using the sculptures as a kind of
text: artistic obstacle course. In front of him is the Burghers of Calais, a Rodin
text: statue of 5 prisoners in chains. He simply walks across their 5 heads, like
text: stones in a stream.
text: He then comes to an abstract modern piece, which he uses as a slide and at the
text: end of which, he crawls through the hole in the next modern thing. He then
text: begins to climb up various famous ancient statues, using the mouths as
text: footholes, breasts as support, codpieces as steps and empty eyes as finger
dialog: holes.
text: After a problem getting his. foot caught in the jaw of a sculptured dog, he
text: walks flat along a modern sculpture, then uses a sequence of classic
text: sculptures as stairs - on the head of a little Degas ballerina, one step on to
text: the bottom of a horse, two steps onto the head of the person riding the horse,
text: three steps and now he's on the other side of the hall.
text: He then triumphantly pulls out a painting. It's the one!,
speaker_heading: SUIT MAN
dialog: What would we do without you! The entire inventory of British Art
dialog: stored in that one, curious brain of yours.
speaker_heading: BEAN beams.
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. BOARDROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: GARETH
dialog: Then we are agreed, gentlemen. He goes.
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: Only if we're positive that the new catalogue database will render
dialog: Mr. Bean's hitherto 'talents' obsolete.
speaker_heading: HUBERT
dialog: There's no question.
dialog: 8
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Very well. Mr Bean is.... art history. We can all stop taking
dialog: the pills.
text: A reserved smatter of laughter, from relief more than anything. LORD W. talks
text: into an intercom on the table.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Miss Hutchinson, would you send Mr. Bean up to the boardroom,
dialog: please.
speaker_heading: MISS HUTCHINSON
speaker_heading: (V/O )
dialog: Yes sir. oh, and Lord Walton, the Grierson Gallery called again.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Thank you. (To the room) One final thing. Once again we have been
dialog: invited by the Grierson Gallery of Southern California to second
dialog: one of our staff for a short visit. The Grierson has a fairly
dialog: modest collection - but it does include the most famous American
dialog: painting of all, 'Whistler's Mother'. Any thoughts?
text: Cut to the trustees - they shake their heads and wrinkle, their noses, not
text: very interested. A 106 year old SIR RUPERT puts up his hand.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Yes. Sir Rupert. And may I say sir, how honoured we are that you
dialog: still grace us with all your time, wisdom, and infinite knowledge.
dialog: Your invaluable thoughts, sir?
speaker_heading: SIR RUPERT
dialog: Could you speak up please. I didn't catch the question.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. STORAGE OFFICE - DAY
text: Back in his office area BEAN ceremoniously hands SUIT MAN the Van Hocht
dialog: painting. He's very proud of himself.
speaker_heading: SUIT MAN
dialog: Thank you, Bean. You're a genius.
dialog: 9
text: BEAN laughs - delighted. SUIT MAN exits and MISS HUTCHINSON enters, warily.
speaker_heading: MISS HUTCHINSON
dialog: Mr. Bean. Lord Walton would like to see you in the boardroom.
text: BEAN gives a little pleasured squeak. How exciting for him. He follows MISS
text: HUTCHINSON out into the corridor.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. CORRIDOR. DAY
text: BEAN walks along the same corridor as before. Turns off another light. Then
text: comes to the room where he saw the Programmer. The computer, showing a Van
text: Gogh portrait, is on and no-one's there. BEAN, who hates wasted electricity,
text: goes in to switch it off.
text: We see the Van Gogh change to a pictorial representation of the Storage room -
text: with an arrow pointing to where the Van Gogh is located. BEAN is clearly
dialog: going to be replaced by this programme. Or not ... BEAN searches for the
text: plug, but it's under acres of desk - so he simply pulls a cable out of the
text: back the computer. The entire system clicks off. At which moment the
text: Programmer comes back in.
speaker_heading: PROGRAMMER
dialog: What's happening here?
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ahm...
text: With a slightly guilty smile he picks up the cable again looks with puzzlement
text: at the five available places to plug it in and just takes a random guess. And
text: a disastrous one. There is a ugly electrical fizzle. The screens come on
text: white, then pop out completely.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ah.... Ahm....
text: BEAN realises that he has done something wrong and quickly shoves the cable
text: into another circuit. The Van Gogh appears happily on the screen. BEAN and
text: PROGRAMMER both give out a sigh of relief. BEAN smiles and leaves quickly.
text: But a second later the computer screen disintegrates and the Van Gogh slides
text: down the screen like a water-colour in the rain. The PROG difficult to
dialog: breathe.
dialog: 10
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. BOARDROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: You have your voting slips, gentlemen. Please remember the
dialog: Americans are looking for something quite high powered. A
dialog: doctorate preferably...
text: There is a knock at the door. BEAN enters. LORD WALTON smiles. The rest of
text: the faces in the room are looking dangerously close to smug. BEAN is very
dialog: nervous indeed.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: (gravely)
dialog: Ah, Mr. Bean. Please take a seat for a moment. I have some news
dialog: which will not, I'm afraid...
text: The phone rings. LORD WALTON answers. BEAN sits next to VINCENT and sniffs
text: at him. VINCENT's breath hasn't improved.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yes? Put him on... Timothy. The computer ... Yes... When? How?
dialog: All of it? Absolutely all of it? Did you back it up? How long
dialog: will it ... ? Another six months. Fair enough. Come up here
dialog: will you, dear boy.
text: He slowly hangs up. Everyone has got the gist of what has just occurred with
text: the new computer- The energy drains from them all as they contemplate another
text: six months with BEAN still on the staff. LORD WALTON coughs politely.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: As I was saying, gentlemen. The Grierson Gallery. South
text: California. Great opportunity. Thousands-of miles-away though it
dialog: is. Doctorate or ( IMPISHLY ) no doctorate, perhaps
text: All get the message at the same moment and hurriedly scribble on their voting
text: slips. The slips get handed down the line to LORD WALTON. We see that every
text: single slip has 'BEAN' on it.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Mr. Bean. Wonderful news. You are going to America.
speaker_heading: MR. BEAN
dialog: (overwhelmed)
dialog: Ooooh, how lovely.
text: There is a knock at the door. The fat, bespectacled,
text: PROGRAMMER puts his head round it.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: (beaming)
dialog: Ah, Timothy. You're sacked.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. CORRIDOR - DAY
text: BEAN rounds a corner and walks towards us, imitating a bowlegged cowboy. The
text: Theme from Bonanza plays. He whips out his pair of imaginary six shooters,
text: spins them on his fingers and returns them to-their imaginary holsters, making
text: gun sound effects. He's very happy.-He passes the Security Guard - he draws
text: his gun on him - zero reaction the Guard just raises his eyebrows and yawns.
text: BEAN heads on through the gallery merrily - but suddenly, his good mood is
text: broken, when he notices 3 schoolgirls entering a new exhibition, called The
text: Ultra-Human Form. This worries him - and we soon see why - BEAN heads in to
text: the room where all the paintings are very graphic nudes, and the 3 girls are
dialog: having a good giggle.
text: BEAN quickly rushes over and with his hand covers the breasts of the painting
dialog: they're inspecting.
text: Two girls then move on to the next painting - which unfortunately also has
text: breasts. BEAN stretches and just manages to cover them with his other hand.
text: Now the third girl heads on, so BEAN can drop the hand on the first painting -
text: but now has to try to cover the breasts on the third painting, which is a real
text: long stretch away. He can't quite make it, so he takes off his shoes, which
dialog: gives him the extra 3 inches. Again, safe. Just.
text: Now, all three girls leave the paintings - but, to BEAN's chagrin, head over
text: to a classical nude sculpture in the middle of the room. It's like the 3
text: Graces, 3 naked women back to back. BEAN thinks fast. He quickly whips off
dialog: his
dialog: 12
text: Belt and rushes over to the statue, where he succeeds in looping it round to
dialog: cover all six nipples.
text: Unfortunately the girls have already lost interest and head over to the other
text: side of the gallery. To BEAN's horror. Because at that moment we reveal what
text: is on the other side of the room. A epic painting in the style of the others
text: - with literally 40 graphically naked people.
text: BEAN sprints across the room, stands on a chair, and desperately tries to
text: cover a particularly lurid example of a gentleman's manhood.
text: At which moment the teacher of the party and 40 other schoolgirls appear and
text: scream in chorus. BEAN thinks that it is the painting that has caused offence
text: and is in outraged agreement with them. He turns. Cut wide to reveal that
text: they are screaming because he's beltless
text: trousers have fallen down.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GRIERSON GALLERY. AMERICA - DAY.
text: 8.30 am California time. A modern building with plenty of glass. Large,
text: modern sculptures are spotted around its grounds, including a dramatic one of
text: two huge old cars, head down in the ground, backs protruding into the air.
text: THOMAS GRIERSON, owner of the gallery, wearing a slick expensive suit, walks
text: with DAVE LEARY and BERNIE, both in casual jackets and ties. GRIERSON is a
text: vain, slightly pedantic and pompous man - maybe short - always just trying to
text: show he's Boss. The three are strolling towards the main entrance. Huge
text: sign: 'THE GRIERSON GALLERY' with a silhouette of Whistler's Mother taken from
text: the painting, as an incorporated logo.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Lord Walton assures me this guy's one of the very top scholars in
dialog: the English art world. Has a couple of doctorates no less.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Great news.
text: BERNIE is smooth and smiley. DAVID LEARY, Vice President, is a very pleasant,
text: but slightly worried man, knocking on 40. Too nice for his own good. The
text: three pass a lone MIME ARTIST wearing a cheap vac-form PRESIDENT CLINTON face
text: mask. David can't help being just a little nice to him and finds himself left
text: behind. He scampers to catch up.
dialog: 9
text: First, catching under the handle - then the couch, then
text: Four other chairs - and finally the deep freeze. No-one's going to get in
dialog: through that door.
text: BACK IN THE HALL BEAN pushes the string back inside the letter box and slaps
text: his hand in satisfaction. He locks the door's enormous padlock, looks about
text: carefully to make sure no one's around, and then hides the key under a garden
text: gnome on the floor, standing amongst a row of pathetic pot plants.
scene_heading: MIX THROUGH TO:
scene_heading: INT. AIRPORT. RECEPTION DESK. NIGHT
text: The lady checking in BEAN looks puzzled as she holds his passport. So he
text: pulls the shockingly stupid face. 0h yes, she sees, that's the guy in the
text: picture. She hands him his ticket.
speaker_heading: CHECK-IN LADY
dialog: Here we go, sir. You've been moved to l st. class. Apparently
dialog: your friends at the Gallery were so delighted that you're
dialog: finally on your way.
text: BEAN is very touched.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AIRPORT LOUNGE - NIGHT
text: BEAN enters the first class lounge. It's fairly empty, but BEAN still
text: squeezes himself between an old lady drinking a cup of tea, and a very grand
text: looking American military man in a business suit.
text: The Grand Man lights up a cigar. This doesn't please Mr "No Smoking BEAN.
text: First, he waves the smoke away, in small, then big, then huge wafting
text: motions. Then he tries, miming, to cut it up into segments and move them
text: aside. The man pays no attention at all.
text: BEAN puts a plastic mug over his face, like a gas mask and breathes heavily.
text: The man looks at him - but doesn't give a damn
text: BEAN now takes a paper bag - catches some of the smoke, and take it over and
text: empties it into the dust bin.
text: The Grand Man goes on smoking stubbornly. He then sees a magazine rack and
text: leaves his cigar as he goes to get one.
dialog: 13
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Sounds like a real coup, sir... getting this Doctor of ...
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Various things. Thank you. However, as you know, this is not an
dialog: inexpensive venture, and, financially speaking, we're in very
dialog: serious crap right now.
text: He can't quite hide his tackiness.) DAVID holds the door for GRIERSON - then
text: sees an old woman coming towards him. He waits for her to go through, and
text: due to his sweetness, is again left behind. He rushes to catch up.
text: They are now passing the reception counter cum gallery shop. DAVID exchanges
text: smiles with the cashier, ANNIE. Very bubbly, not very bright. The shop is
text: full of Whistler's Mother memorabilia - posters, cards, porcelain statuettes.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: So ... I'm wondering if one of you would have this guy stay in your
text: home instead of some expensive hotel.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Love to, sir, but no can do. No spare room. Period.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: David?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Oh, look, I mean, it's kind of the last thing... I mean, I'd really
dialog: like to, but... things at home are kind of sensitive, so I couldn't
dialog: really er ...
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: I thought perhaps as Vice-President, and in view of the unfortunate
dialog: attendance's for the summer show this year... the MASSIVE financial
dialog: LOSS ...
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: on the other hand ... maybe a breath of fresh air is just what my
dialog: family needs ... Yes. Great news. Fabulous. Triumphant. Course
dialog: it might need a little smoothing over. When's he due?
text: GRIERSON hands DAVID a piece of paper.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Tomorrow. You have a problem with that?
speaker_heading: PAUSE
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: No. Perfect. Looking forward to it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LONDON . PHOTO BOOTH. DAY.
text: The camera faces Mr BEAN sitting in a Photo booth. His face is totally
text: impassive for 1, 2, then 3 flashes. And then, just before the 4th flash, he
dialog: pulls the biggest, maddest face you've ever seen. Flash! He gives a little
text: Satisfied giggle.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE - DAY
text: 7 p.m. California time. A pleasant suburban house. DAVID's car pulls into
text: the drive. JENNIFER, his slightly Gothic 16 year old daughter, is kissing
text: BRAD, her scruffy boyfriend. He sits astride a motor scooter. He has a
text: bum-fluff moustache.
text: DAVID gets out of his car and approaches them.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Hi, Jennifer. How was school? (she doesn't break the kiss with
dialog: Brad) oh really? That's good, great. Fantastic. We'll talk some
dialog: more.
text: The two continue kissing as DAVID moves on. He's just about to head for the
text: house when a swish convertible draws up at the curb. DAVID's wife, ALISON,
text: has been given a lift home by her young attractive boss, CHARLES. They are
text: laughing in the car as DAVID walks up.
dialog: 15
text: He is slightly disturbed to see ALISON kiss CHARLES on the cheek before
text: getting out with her port folio. CHARLES smiles pleasantly on seeing DAVID.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Hello, David.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Hi, Charles. (To Alison) Wow - late!
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: (brightly)
dialog: I had to do some last minute stuff.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: My fault. We've got a heavy load on at present. How about you,
dialog: gallery going well?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ahm, well, you know ~ that's a tough question - on one' level I
dialog: think it ....
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Don't ask him about work, Charlie. Life's too short.
text: Alison is the same age as DAVID, but seems to have lasted the course better -
text: she's confident, in good shape. The atmosphere is awkward. JENNIFER screams
text: out. Her 8 year old brother, KEVIN has sprung from the shrubbery and lassoed
text: her and BRAD. ALISON goes over to sort them out.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Kevin! You stop that right now!
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Great kids. Good looking too.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: You think so? Well I 'spose they're pretty, you know... okay,
dialog: looks-wise.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Take after their mother, huh?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ah ... absolutely.
text: DAVID is not very happy here.
dialog: 16
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. KITCHEN - DAY
text: It is open plan and leads through into the lounge. DAVID and ALISON enter.
text: ALISON puts her port folio on the table and leads DAVID onto a sofa. She puts
text: her arms round him.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Let's take a break, David. This weekend, why don't we just get
dialog: into the car and drive to the coast. Find a motel. Like before
dialog: the kids were born. Go to a fairground. Win me another Bambi.
text: She reaches across and picks up a little ceramic Bambi on a table next to the
dialog: couch.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Jennifer can stay and look after Kevin
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Sounds great. Excellent. Though-, Ahm... there's this guy who's
dialog: coming to work at the Gallery, from England...
speaker_heading: ALISON
speaker_heading: (SUSPICIOUSLY)
dialog: Yeeees?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: And they asked me if we'd like to ... you know... put him up for a
dialog: while.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: There aren't hotels?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes, there are hotels. They just thought maybe it'd be nice for
text: him to stay with a real American family. Popcorn, waffles, all
dialog: that stuff.
speaker_heading: ALISON
speaker_heading: (POINTEDLY)
dialog: And what did you say?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I said I'd check with you.
text: She looks at him piercingly. This clearly happens a lot. She knows when he's
dialog: telling the truth. Pause.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Then I said 'yes'.
text: She puts Bambi carefully back on the table, gets up and moves to the kitchen.
speaker_heading: DAVID follows.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Do we know anything about him?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ahm - he's male. He's English. He's a doctor of er ... at least
dialog: 2 things. I think they would have mentioned if he was a blind
dialog: dwarf. Or one of those guys who kills lots of people all the
dialog: time. I think we're looking at someone moderately normal here.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: David - are you ever going to learn to say 'no'?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes. Yes. (pause) Sometime.
text: She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: It's the last thing we need.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: That's exactly what I said ... before I said - Great, it's a
dialog: sensational idea."
text: He knows he's made a mess here. Enter KEVIN, their smart young son, strolling
dialog: through.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Hiya Dad ~ I'll need you upstairs for homework in about ....
dialog: (checks watch) oh, 20 minutes.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Great, good.
text: And KEVIN exits.
dialog: 18
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Didn't kids do their own homework, like way back? Years ago?
dialog: No. Course not. Just imagining it.
text: ALISON isn't really listening. Much tension.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MR. BEAN'S BED-SIT - NIGHT
text: 9.30 p.m. U.K. time. A black London taxi is parked outside a terraced house
text: with its motor idling. Its driver looks fed up waiting. BEAN appears at a
text: downstairs window, motioning to his watch that he will not be long.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MR. BEAN'S BED-SIT - DAY
text: MR. BEAN is ready to leave his room. Battered old
text: suitcase in hand, he checks the room from the doorway.
dialog: Every conceivable thing that can be opened - cupboards,
text: drawers, fridge -sports an oversized padlock. Even
text: Bean's old G.P.O. phone has one on its dial.
text: BEAN looks across to his TEDDY, who is lounging on a miniature chair, inside
text: an up-sided cardboard box. The box is sits on an armchair. A hand-written
text: sign, taped to its roof reads: 'TEDDY HOTEL' followed by three stars.
dialog: 19
text: A smaller sign informs us that the hotel is: 'FULL'. BEAN is just about to
text: leave but stops to consider. Taking a felt tipped pen, he adds two more stars
text: on the hotel hoarding, as a treat.
text: He then, slightly, incomprehensibly, begins to tie string it around various
text: objects in the flat. The fridge - the corner of a chair, a couch leg.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MR. BEAN'S RESIDENCE'S HALLWAY ~ DAY
text: BEAN leaves his flat. lee notice a large official sign stuck on the door
text: saying 'NO SMOKING". He now turns his attention to the pieces of string
text: hanging out the letter box in his door. Grabbing the bunch of them, he pulls.
text: CUT TO back inside the flat. we now understand the string - as all the
text: furniture starts to move across the flat. It works incredibly neatly the
text: chair reaches the door
dialog: 20
text: BEAN acts fast. He takes the cigar - and quickly dunks it in the old woman's
dialog: cup of tea.
text: He sits there, guiltlessly, as the Grand Man returns. Simultaneously, the man
text: tries to suck the wet cigar, and the Old woman drinks the disgusting tea. A
dialog: horrid experience for both.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AEROPLANE - DAY.
text: Boarding time. BEAN enters the plane and turns right, into the body of the
text: plane. After walking right down the plane, he is directed by a hostess back
text: up to first. As he walks back, we notice the' ridiculous contrast, from
text: totally cramped accommodation with hundreds of children and muzak, to the
dialog: elegance, and space of First class.
text: BEAN couldn't be more thrilled. There follows a sequence of short moments
dialog: from this nightmare flight.
text: 1/ The Old Tea-Drinking Lady is being helped with her ,luggage. A hostess
text: slides it into the compartment above her head.
speaker_heading: OLD LADY
dialog: Be careful. It's for my Grand-daughter.
text: The next instant BEAN comes up with his case. He opens the same locker, and
text: tries to fit his case in. Doesn't quite go - so he pushes it violently. We
text: hear crunching cracking sounds. Finally, it's almost there - BEAN slams the
text: locker door. One final definitive, though muffled, smash. The OLD LADY looks
speaker_heading: at BEAN suspiciously.
dialog: 2/ BEAN sits down - and who should be his next door neighbour? The Grand Man,
text: whose name is REYNOLDS. BEAN smiles merrily. The affection is not mutual.
text: Champagne comes round instantly. BEAN takes it, along with a small bowl of
text: nuts, and clinks glasses with his unsmiling partner. BEAN tries to impress
text: him by throwing nuts up into the air and catching them in his mouth (a well
dialog: practised art). No response.
text: BEAN then switches on the noisy overhead air blower. Then can't turn it down
text: again. It's very stuck. He manages however to push it away from his face -
text: straight into REYNOLDS' . REYNOLDS looks annoyed, BEAN guiltless.
dialog: 21
text: Then 'BEAN has an idea. He takes a tissue out of his pocket, puts in his
text: mouth, chews it into a spitball
text: And rams it into the blower. Both of them are relieved. REYNOLDS picks up
dialog: his champagne to have his first proper sip. And whapp! The spitball, under
dialog: high pressure, shoots
text: into it, sending champagne spraying all over REYNOLDS. Not a good start.
text: 3/--BEAN is reading the in-flight magazine. There's an annoying sound. He
text: looks sideways - it is the headphones of the YOUNG BOY in the seat across the
text: aisle. He's fallen asleep with his headphones on. BEAN looks annoyed. Then
text: suddenly decides to cut his fingernails with a little pair of scissors he
text: carries. He holds out his hand to snip the nail - and accidentally on purpose
text: simply cuts the wire of the boy's headset. That's better.
text: 4/ Night. Wide shot of the plane - everyone is asleep except one pool of
text: light. It's Mr BEAN still up, reading.
text: But even he is wilting. His eyes close, and his body starts to waver towards
text: sleep. Next to him, REYNOLDS is in a total lying position - and
text: unfortunately, as BEAN slowly tips over, his mouth comes into direct contact
text: with REYNOLDS' flies.
text: From across the compartment, a hostess sees what's happening. She's shocked,
text: comes over and taps BEAN on the ,,shoulder. He shoots up, and nearly
text: strangles her in shock. She calms him down, shows him how to put his chair
text: back - and leaves him to sleep. CUT ON....
text: 5/ REYNOLDS still asleep. With BEAN asleep completely on top of him.
text: Completely. His hand is spread on REYNOLDS' face. REYNOLDS' eyes open. He
text: sees what's happened. His arm goes up and rings for the Hostess.
text: 6/ Morning has broken. REYNOLDS is still trying to sleep - BEAN is wide
text: awake. The Hostess approaches, and the MOTHER of the YOUNG BOY says her son
dialog: isn't very well.
text: BEAN decides to cheer him up. He mimes an aeroplane which makes the boy feel
text: more ill. Then does a rather good lizard impersonation by sticking bits of
text: paper to his tongue and eye-lids and fluttering them.
text: He then brings out a scrunched up bag of Dolly Mixtures and does his trick of
text: throwing a sweet in the air and catching it in his mouth. The boy is too ill
dialog: to be impressed.
text: BEAN tries to cheer him up with his imaginary gun pretending to be a cowboy
text: and then a tough American Cop. Nothing. Then he has an extremely fun idea.
text: He empties the Dolly Mixtures from the paper bag and pockets them.
dialog: 22
text: He then blows up the empty bag and is about to pop it to wake REYNOLDS, when
dialog: he sees it's got a hole in it. No fun.
text: Meanwhile, the Boy has taken out his sick-bag. BEAN is delighted - yes,
text: that's perfect. He turns away for a split second to scrunch up the useless
text: bag, while, unseen to him, the boy vomits into his bag. BEAN turns, grabs the
text: bag from him - blows into it, puts it right into REYNOLDS' face at arms
text: length, and smacks his hands together. CUT at just the right moment.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AMERICAN AIRPORT. ARRIVALS - NIGHT
text: The traditional exit area. A random bunch of people are waiting - relatives,
text: limousine drivers - and, rather strangely, three 30 year old women dressed in
text: curly red wigs from the musical, 'Annie'.
text: The LEARYS are at the barrier. KEVIN has a cardboard sign with 'MR. BEAN'
text: written on it. People are streaming out of the Arrivals gate. ALISON is not
text: happy. Actually no one is. JENNIFER looks particularly fed up.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: For all you know, he may be a very attractive young man.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Oh come on - the guy's going to be a creep. All Englishmen are
dialog: ugly.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: What makes you say that?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: All the guys they claim are English to and good-looking like Dan
text: Day-Lewis and Liam Neeson, turn out to be Irish. Even Anthony
text: Hopkins is welsh. Prince Charles is so ugly they pay him two
dialog: million bucks a year to stay indoors.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Richard Burton was very good-looking.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Welsh.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Sean Connery.
dialog: 23
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Scottish.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Tom Jones?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Welsh again.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Okay, so the guy's gonna look like Meatloaf's backside. No-one's
dialog: asking you to go to bed with him.
text: JENNIFER glares at him. A tired ALISON has had enough of this waiting
dialog: already.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Bed sounds good though. Bed sounds great.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AMERICAN AIRPORT. CONVEYER - NIGHT
text: BEAN, is off the plane. REYNOLDS strides ahead of him, a huge wet patch in a
text: semi-circle around his neck. BEAN comes to a moving walkways. He steps on to
text: it sheepishly, thinking it's very daring and brave, gripping the handrail as
dialog: though he was travelling at 100 mph.
text: But soon he gains greater confidence. He stands up straight, both hands off
text: the rail. There are a couple of COPS leaning against a wall, chatting. BEAN
text: notices their guns. Slipping into role-play mode, he reaches into his breast
text: pocket, ready to bring out his imaginary shooter ... The last security guard
dialog: he tried this with just yawned ~ so BEAN thinks it's safe. But this time, the
text: COPS turn and stare at him tensely..
text: Flustered by their interest in him, BEAN needs to get away. He turns, but
text: finds that he is walking in the opposite direction, on the spot. The COPS
text: read this as suspicious behaviour and move towards him suspiciously. BEAN
text: turns to gets himself going in the right direction. The COPS follow. BEAN
text: runs. The COPS give chase.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 24
scene_heading: INT. 'AMERICAN AIRPORT. ARRIVALS - NIGHT
text: A little BALD MAN arrives at the barrier. The three red wigged clones from
text: the musical, `Annie' swamp him with shrieks and kisses. The LEARYS are
text: getting impatient.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: (bored )
dialog: Who do you think is the ugliest guy who ever lived.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Well, Michael Bolton's pretty grisly.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: I vote for Bart.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Shut up, Kevin.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: NO, seriously - I know he's your boyfriend, but there's something
dialog: about his upper lip that is so weird. What do you think it is, Dad?
dialog: Jen says it's a moustache, I say it's a cluster of about 11
text: mosquitoes, resting.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: You know the thing I hate most about children?
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Nope.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: You.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AMERICAN AIRPORT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: BEAN is running down the busy corridor with the two COPS in pursuit. They
text: draw their guns. Two more COPS appear,
text: coming from the opposite direction. BEAN is trapped. He drops his case.
speaker_heading: COP 1
dialog: Police! Stop or we shoot!
dialog: 25
text: Passers-by scream and throw themselves to the floor. BEAN freezes on the
text: spot, terrified. All four COPS have their guns trained on him in the shooting
dialog: position.
speaker_heading: COP 1
dialog: Carefully take out your weapon, holding the butt with two fingers
text: only. Slowly place it on the floor and take three paces back!
text: Dead slowly, BEAN puts his hand into his inside jacket pocket and brings it
text: back out made in the shape of a gun. He slowly transfers that imaginary item
text: to the finger and thumb of his left hand. He bends down and places it on the
text: floor then takes three paces back. He gives out a big breath after the effort
text: of it all. The COPS just stare at him, gob-smacked.
text: Little OLD LADY from plane steers up from nowhere. She rattles her box of
text: broken china and kicks BEAN in the shins. Things are not going his way.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AMERICAN AIRPORT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT
text: Bright and clinical. Close on BEAN sitting behind a table; a very small man
text: in very big trouble. Behind him, two uniformed COPS stand guard. A large,
text: black plain clothes detective sits opposite, smoking a cigarette. This is
text: BRUTUS. He studies BEAN's passport photo. It's the baboon face. He holds it
text: up to bean's face to make a comparison. BEAN pulls the face to match the
dialog: photo.
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: Mr. Bean. Are you presently on any kind of medication at all?
text: BEAN thinks deeply for a moment then shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: You could certainly use some.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AMERICAN AIRPORT. ARRIVALS - NIGHT
text: ALISON, JENNIFER and KEVIN are slumped in seats near the barrier. DAVID walks
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: What did they say?
dialog: 26
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Well, they're kind of busy but it doesn't look like ...
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Did you really ask?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I'm not sure I got the right person but they were a bit busy ...
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: What's wrong with you, David? All you have to do is say, Excuse
dialog: me, I've been sitting here since the start of the Millennium and
dialog: I'd really like some action from you before the end of the world.
dialog: I'll go.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: No, no. I'11 try again ...
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: I said, I'11 go.
text: She goes. KEVIN shakes his head disappointedly al,-- his father. DAVID
text: slumps down on the seat. He overhears JENNIFER flirting with an incredibly
text: undesirable bloke in a leather jacket - white, with Rasta hair extensions,
text: and about sixty rings in his nose. (This is STINGO).
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: So. where do your parents live?
speaker_heading: STINGO
dialog: My parents are dead.
text: DAVID is pretty confident that he knows who killed them.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Yeah, so are mine.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. AMERICAN AIRPORT. TAXI RANK. NIGHT
text: COP 1 puts BEAN in the back of a taxi with his case. He
text: takes some dollar notes from his own wallet and hands them to the driver.
dialog: 27
speaker_heading: COP 1
dialog: Just get him the hell out of here, will ya?
text: He slams the door and the taxi drives away.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AMERICAN AIRPORT-. ARRIVALS - NIGHT
text: The LEARYS are all asleep in eccentric positions on the seats. JENNIFER's
text: head is resting on STINGO's leg. Kevin's cardboard sign with 'MR. BEAN,
text: written on it falls from his lap to the floor.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE - NIGHT
text: The taxi draws up outside the house. BEAN gets out with his case. The CAB
text: DRIVER is strangely friendly.
speaker_heading: CAB DRIVER
dialog: Thanks man, I can't tell you how much I appreciate talking to ya.
dialog: In this job you get so many jerks spilling their guts all over ya,
dialog: with their stupid problems ... But you, you're a great listener,
dialog: ya know that?
text: BEAN smiles politely. Taxi drives away. BEAN walks up to' the front porch,
text: checks the house number on his piece of paper and presses the doorbell. No
text: answer. Presses again. Still no answer ... Now where have they hidden the
text: key. He inspects things carefully.
text: The camera sees what he sees ... the doormat, the flowerpot, the window-ledge
text: ... and then he spots a little stone frog. BEAN smiles. Key hiding is
text: something he knows about - and people are pathetically obvious about it. BEAN
text: picks up the FROG to reveal the front door key. It glints in the porch-light.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: BEAN lets himself in. The pre-alarm buzzer goes off quietly. He has 15
text: seconds before the alarm goes off proper. He strolls confidently to where the
text: alarm control unit obviously is ... under the stairs.
dialog: 28
text: Close-up of flashing L.E.D. Again, BEAN looks carefully and finds the magnetic
text: box, housing a little key, attached to the underside of the console. Just as
text: the alarm goes off, for the splittest of a secondette, he turns the key in its
dialog: slot ... and is safe.
text: BEAN finds the switch and turns on the hall light. He switches it off again
text: ... then on. Then rapidly clicks it on and off repeatedly.Fun.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Shot from across the street, with all the house lights flashing off and on
text: madly.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. LOUNGE - NIGHT
text: BEAN stands in front of the television, looking a little annoyed about the
text: fact that the remote control in his hand is having no effect at all. He stabs
text: at it randomly.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE - NIGHT
text: The garage doors are swinging open and closed rhythmically.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DAVID'S CAR - NIGHT
text: KEVIN and JENNIFER are asleep in the back. DAVID drives in silence, Alison
text: next to him. Uneasy atmosphere. DAVID stabs at buttons on the car radio.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: It isn't working any more, David.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I know - I'11 take it in to George tomorrow'- he'll fix it.
dialog: Stupid thing.
text: HE SWITCHES IT OFF.
dialog: 29
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: No, US. It's not working any longer -you and me.
text: Pause. DAVID's now heard it completely. He takes his eyes off the road and
text: stares at ALISON a moment too long. A car's horn snatches back his
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Jesus.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: I need some time, David. A little time. It's not just you.
dialog: It's partly me.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: But in general ... it's ... mostly me, right?
text: Pause. Single shot of Alison and David. She doesn't answer. He is
dialog: destitute.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: BEAN wanders down the stairs in his pyjamas. He sees a walkman - and puts it
text: on happily. He moves to the rhythm. He locks the door, turns on the alarm
dialog: and turns off the
dialog: hall light.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE - NIGHT
text: DAVID's car turns into the drive just as the hall light goes off. (For the
text: next few minutes, knife-edged timing 0 is all). The LEARYS sleepily get out
text: of the car and approach the house. DAVID brings out his door key.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. UPSTAIRS LANDING - NIGHT
text: The exact moment the key turns in the lock, BEAN, still wearing headphones,
text: disappears into a bedroom with a little ceramic sign on it saying: 'GUEST
speaker_heading: ROOM'.
text: The exhausted family enter an apparently untouched house. KEVIN turns on the
text: stairs light, climbs to his room off the landing and closes the door on which
text: a sign reads: 'KEVIN'.
dialog: 30
text: At that instant BEAN walks out, looking for the bathroom with his wash bag.
text: He looks up at the light. It should not be on. He frowns, turns it off and
text: exits to bathroom. At which precise moment JENNIFER, zombie-like, is halfway
dialog: up the stairs
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Thanks a lot, Kevin!
text: JENNIFER goes into her room. The sign reads: `JENNIFER'.
text: ALISON turns on the light and climbs the stairs. David heads into the
text: kitchen. They exchange a sad look. She goes into their bedroom: the sign
text: reads: 'GRUPS'. At which instant, BEAN, still wearing headphones, leaves the
text: bathroom, and heads downstairs ....
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: The light is on. DAVID takes a deep breath. Bad night. He picks up an empty
text: coffee jar, sighs and goes into the pantry a full one. BEAN enters. He opens
text: the refrigerator and he studies the food on offer. Nothing he fancies ...
dialog: then BINGO!
text: He sees a little plate of 3 strawberries. He eats one, then two, then pops
text: the third into his mouth. It tastes a bit off, so he takes it out of his
text: mouth, puts it back on the plate, closes the fridge door, and exits ... just
text: as DAVID comes out of the pantry. Close on BEAN's hand as it comes round the
text: door frame and turns off the light. DAVID, on the move, stubs his toe on a
text: chair. He groans in pain, limps to the fridge. He spots the lone, already
text: sucked strawberry and pops it into his mouth.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. D &amp; A'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: ALISON is watching T.V. in bed with the remote control. DAVID enters with
text: orange juice and puts it down by his side of the bed.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: The lights blown in the kitchen. I'll fix it tomorrow.
text: They're not a happy couple. She concentrates on the TV even turns it up a
dialog: little.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. BATHROOM - NIGHT
text: BEAN turns on the basin's cold faucet. It gushes noisily.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. D &amp; A'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Close on Letterman on the TV. The noise from it drowns out any noise from the
text: bathroom.(The bathroom has two doors - one into DAVID and ALISON's bedroom,
text: the other onto the landing)..
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. BATHROOM - NIGHT
text: BEAN can't hear the T.V. because of his headphones. He takes out his
text: toothbrush but notices an electric one on a shelf with spare brush heads.
text: He's intrigue. He swaps the heads and enjoys cleaning his teeth with this
text: clever modern implement.
text: -He puts the electric brush down and checks his teeth in the mirror. He has
text: forgotten to turn off the brush and so it vibrates off the sink and lands in
text: the toilet. Bean fishes it out and places it back on the shelf where he found
text: it. He turns off faucet, then exits, turning out the light.
text: DAVID enters and turns the light on again. He takes down the toothbrush and
text: cleans his teeth. He calls through the bedroom door.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: That poor guy, Bean ... He's probably still sitting at London
dialog: Airport!
text: He finishes his teeth then runs the hot faucet. He exits to bedroom as BEAN
text: enters from hall with dirty socks.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. D &amp; A'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: ALISON is still watching T.V. The volume is getting to DAVID.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Alison, please.
dialog: 32
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARYS' HOUSE. BATHROOM ~ NIGHT
text: BEAN is just finishing washing his socks in David's water. He rings the dirty
text: water from them, and exits. DAVID enters in his under shorts. He checks his
text: tired eyes in the mirror then washes his face in the basin water without
dialog: looking.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. LANDING ~ NIGHT
text: BEAN notices a framed photograph on the wall. It is of the LEARY family.
text: They are grouped outside their house. It is a very happy picture. BEAN
text: smiles at it. He takes it off the wall and takes it into a bedroom. As the
text: door quietly closes we see the sign: 'JENNIFER'.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. D &amp; A'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Lights are out. DAVID and ALISON in bed. The latter is facing away.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I need to make a confession. I know you're awake. Please, it's
dialog: important.
dialog: (Long pause)
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: (without stirring)
dialog: Go ahead.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I had the last strawberry in the refrigerator.
text: ALISON smiles in spite of herself. She turns over and puts her arm around
text: DAVID. She gets up close to his face.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: There were three strawberries.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: One.
dialog: 33
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Liar.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: 0h Ali we can work this thing out, you know.
text: ALISON smiles, sleepily, and goes to kiss him. She stops and sniffs.
text: Thoroughly put off, she rolls over and closes her eyes.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ali? What's wrong?
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Your face smells like a foot.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE - DAY
text: The next morning. Shot from across the street: A newspaper boy delivers.
text: Birds sing. It's a lovely, peaceful, early morning. Then ... a terrifying
text: girl's scream pierces the quiet.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. UPSTAIRS LANDING - DAY
text: The whole family charges out onto the landing. JENNIFER hurtles out of her
text: room screaming. She barges through the family and locks herself in the
dialog: bathroom.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: What is it? Jennifer!
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
speaker_heading: (0.O.V.)
dialog: ... There's a man ... there's a man ... there's a man in my...
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Honey, calm down now... it's okay...
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: (p.o.v.)
dialog: There's a man. I woke up next to a man ...
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: It wouldn't be the first time.
dialog: 34
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Shut up, Kevin. (to Jennifer) Honey, you-re not making sense ...
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: It's okay. There's no one out here. Just open the door. Trust
dialog: me.
text: Pause ... then a click of the bathroom lock ... Jennifer comes out. Then
text: there's another click. BEAN breezes out of Jennifer's bedroom, past the
text: family, in his pyjamas, carrying a wash bag and a towel over his arm. He
text: waves to them friendly, slips into the bathroom and closes the door. The
text: family stare in amazement.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. KITCHEN - DAY
text: The family, now dressed for work and school, are having breakfast at the
text: kitchen table. After an uncomfortable silence:
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: He makes Prince Charles look kind of handsome.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: He can't stay here, David.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Okay. It's not a problem... Let's just sit ... I'11 talk to the
dialog: gallery ...
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: David, I'm serious!
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I know you are. Very serious ... most of the time these days.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Now what does that mean? My daughter wakes up with a strange man
dialog: in her bed, and I'm supposed to think it's amusing? (looks at his
dialog: tie) That tie's God-awful. Why do you wear it?
text: DAVID is thrown. He looks down at his tie. JENNIFER looks grumpy. KEVIN is
text: eating happily.
dialog: 35
text: BEAN enters, dressed, carrying a plastic carrier bag. He acknowledges the
text: family with a grunt and a smile.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ah, Mr Bean ...
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Excuse me.
text: He moves to the phone, checks his watch and dials quickly.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEAN'S BED-SIT - ENGLAND - NIGHT
text: The ancient G.P.O. phone starts to ring on a small table. (The following
text: takes place in a matter of seconds).
text: On the table are two, large, shiny, hard backed books, wedged up at one end
text: and sloping away at right angles to one another. Each book has a pair of
text: rulers set, parallel to one another, in Play-Doh. They each form a canal.
text: Between one pair of rulers sits a small box of salt. Between the other pair
text: is a miniature bust of BEETHOVEN. As the phone continues to ring and
text: vibrate the table, these items judder along the canal, an inch at a time.
text: The box of salt teaches the bottom of the book and topples over the edge of
text: the table. ( The BEETHOVEN bust' teeters on the edge of its book). The salt
text: lands in a plastic funnel, taped to the top of a bamboo stick. The bottom
text: of the stick sits on the BBC 2 button of a T.V. remote control. Close-up of
text: its infrared L.E.D. as it flashes once. The phone stops ringing.
text: CUT TO: the T.V. comes on at the start of a documentary about grizzly bears.
text: A voice-over begins a narration.
text: CUT TO: close on TEDDY sitting in his cardboard box hotel. Flickering light
text: from the T.V. plays on his face.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Bean hangs up happily, then approaches the toaster, stuffs a pair of wet
text: socks into it and pulls down the start lever. Satisfied, he now turns to
dialog: the family.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Now - can I help?
text: They just stare, dumb-founded.
dialog: 36
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE - DAY
text: DAVID and BEAN arrive at the car and get in. DAVID heads out of the drive
text: at a reasonable speed.
text: BEAN suddenly yanks on the hand-brake. DAVID's head hits the windshield
text: with a sickening thud. BEAN reaches for and fastens his seat belt. He
text: looks to DAVID. DAVID gives BEAN a pained look. What planet does he come
text: from? He fastens his own seat belt while BEAN wonders why it's all taking
dialog: so long.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. CAR PARKING - DAY
text: It's a rather fancy building. Like a little Guggenheim DAVID parks by a
text: large, expensive, looking car. BEAN opens his door and it bangs-hard
text: against the pristine body work.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. RECEPTION AREA - DAY
text: As BEAN and DAVID enter through the swing doors they meet ANNIE, the very
text: bubbly girl in charge of entrance tickets at the reception cum shop counter.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Two dollars please.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Annie, it's me.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Oh, right, yeah. (to Bean) two dollars please.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: No, Annie, no. This is Doctor Bean. He's going to be working with
dialog: us.
text: BEAN frowns. That word 'doctor'.
dialog: 37
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Oh, great. Usually we charge people two dollars to come in- but
dialog: for people who work here, that would be 730 dollars a year, which
dialog: is like, a lot of money, so we kinda like let them off. Hi.
text: BEAN smiles at her.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: He doesn't like to say much does he?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Right first time.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: I can understand THAT. Neither do I.
text: As BEAN and DAVID move on, BEAN gives ANNIE a 1ittle wave. She waves sweetly
text: back. She cocks her head to one side and watches him go. She likes Mr. BEAN a
dialog: lot.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. GROUND FLOOR- DAY
text: BEAN and DAVID arrive In the ground floor gallery. A few visitors are viewing
text: the paintings. The acknowledge ELMER, the huge, ex-army, Security Man, sitting
text: on a small chair by a wall, reading a newspaper. The pass two oldish ladies
text: inspecting a painting
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: You'll notice, our clientele is not totally young. I sometimes
dialog: worry they're not really getting to grips with the art on a deep
dialog: aesthetic level.
text: Stay with the ladies as DAVID and BEAN head on.
speaker_heading: OLD LADY 1
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: OLD LADY 2
dialog: 0h yes - lovely - very nice.
speaker_heading: OLD LADY 1
dialog: And what colour would you use for the curtains?
dialog: 38
speaker_heading: OLD LADY 2
dialog: Well, I thought the sort of blue in this one. (she points to a
dialog: gorgeous blue Matisse) And I thought the curtains in the bathroom
dialog: would be nice in this yellow ....
text: And-they head on to a Van Gogh with a nice yellow in it.
text: BEAN stops to admire a painting. It is Pre-Raphaelite in style, depicting a
text: woman reclined on a bed in a castle chamber. She is wearing a chastity belt
text: fastened with a small padlock, her breasts are concealed under a draped flag.
text: It is a tasteful and romantic picture.
speaker_heading: DAVID
text: Beautiful. 'HIS MISTRESS' by John Everett Millais, 1829 to 96.
dialog: Know it?
text: BEAN shakes his head. It's the padlock he's interested in he points at it and
text: smiles. ANNIE walks up.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Excuse me. Mr Grierson called down. He's ready to see you
dialog: upstairs.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Thanks, Annie.
text: ANNIE walks off back the way she came, looking at BEAN approvingly over her
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Better go. Grierson hates people being late.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Yes. Ahm... think I'11 ...
text: He gestures that held like to tidy up a little. Brush his hair, etc. BEAN
text: waddles off after ANNIE clearly in need of relief. DAVID watches him go.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Why me?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. CORRIDOR - DAY.
text: BEAN is catching up with ANNIE. She notices him following and coyly smiles to
text: herself. She stops, turns round and grins. She thinks he has come to say
dialog: something to her.
dialog: 39
text: BEAN stops dead in front of her - then turns sharp left into the men's
text: washroom. ANNIE's smile fades.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. WASH ROOM - DAY
text: BEAN comes out of a booth. He tidies his hair and tie in a mirror. He pushes
text: down the pressurised tap to wash his hands. It splashes terribly. The whole
dialog: front of his trousers are soaked. The last thing you want when about to meet
dialog: your new boss. Damn!
text: There now follow a quick, complicated piece of business.
text: 1/ BEAN spots a paper-towel dispenser. He turns towards it at just the moment
text: a man exits from a booth - BEAN turns back to the sink to hide his trousers,
text: as the man swiftly does his hands, goes to the paper dispenser, and takes the
dialog: last towel. Damn again.
text: 2/ BEAN now puts his hope in a rolling towel. But it's rather high. He has
text: to jump to try to reach the trouser. At which point Another Man enters.
text: Jumping BEAN has been caught in a very weird position. He pretends he has
dialog: .chosen the Men's Room as the place to do his rather energetic exercise
dialog: routine.
text: 3/ As the man leaves, he then tries to blow the patch dry with his mouth.
text: Another Man enters. Again, BEAN is 1 compromised - pretends it's even more
text: exercises. That man also enters a booth.
text: 4/ BEAN suddenly notices the hand drying machine! He turns it on. A healthy
text: blast of warm air. Annoyingly, it's also rather too high. He tries jumping
text: and bouncing to get his waist to the right height. It's not going to work.
text: Brainwave! He climbs up on two sinks. Now the drier is blowing in exactly
text: the right place. BEAN sways to let the air cover the whole area. It's
dialog: working excellently.
text: 5/ At which moment, one of the men exits from a booth and sees him in the
text: mirror. BEAN is in an immensely compromising sex-with-machine position. He
text: pretends he's there to change the light bulb above, which he takes out calmly
text: and polishes. The man leaves, BEAN smiles. But as he exits, BEAN's face
text: transforms - he's totally scalded his fingers on the scorching bulb.
dialog: 40
text: 6/ BEAN rushes to the sink, puts his fingers under the tap, pushes on the
text: water - and soaks himself all over again. At which moment, DAVID enters,
text: exasperated.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Come on! Let's go!
text: BEAN exits uneasily hunched to hide his wet patch. They enter the corridor,
text: and he spots a newspaper.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON'S OFFICE - DAY
text: BEAN and DAVID enter. It's a warm, formal. office. On the wall behind the
text: desk is a full-size, framed poster of Whistler's Mother. On a white
text: background, at the base of the poster, a caption reads: 'THE GRIERSON
text: GALLERY, HOME OF WHISTLER'S MOTHER'. Elsewhere, the walls are full of
dialog: paintings.
text: GRIERSON and BERNIE look up from a computer screen at DAVID and BEAN, who
text: is, rather weirdly, carrying a newspaper in fronts of his flies. GRIERSON
text: approaches David, and shakes his hand.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
text: Ah, David. Finally. (CHECKS HIS WATCH DELIBERATELY ) And this
dialog: must be our professor from across the sea.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes, this is Doctor Bean.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Actually I'm not .... er ...
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: This is Bernard Schimmel. Bernie the Doctor.
text: BERNIE offers his hand. BEAN has to do a nifty handchange to free up the
text: correct hand for the handshake. The newspaper stays firmly in place.
speaker_heading: THOMAS GRIERSON
dialog: Ah ~ the Tribune - mind if I just ....
text: He reaches out to borrow the newspaper. BEAN has to squeeze in right next to
text: the desk and sit behind it, before he can hand the paper over thus ensuring
text: the continued invisibility of the wet patch. GRIERSON studies the paper for a
dialog: second.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Take a seat, gentlemen..... although before we settle - feast your
dialog: eyes on these.
text: GRIERSON goes to a painting on a wall. DAVID and BEAN follow ~ BEAN about one
text: inch from DAVID's back, walking in perfect rhythm.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Arthur Rackham. Originals of course. Got four of them. Check
dialog: this out ... Venus and the Cat, Aesop's Fables. Isn't that
dialog: something?
text: He heads towards said illustration on adjacent wall - and BEAN and DAVID
text: follow, still totally glued together. A strange sight.
speaker_heading: DAVID.
dialog: They're beautiful, sir.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Maybe. Hell of a price, I'11 tell you. Anyway - down to
dialog: business.
text: They head back to the desk - but Bean, in a momentary lapse of concentration
text: fails to follow. He's now stuck on the wrong side of the room, unable to
dialog: turn around.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Bernie was just showing me his new ideas for a cross-gallery
dialog: computer system. Dr Bean - would you like to look at this? Very
dialog: exciting stuff ....
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ahm ... NO.
text: GRIERSON is slightly surprised. But they persevere.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: What I'm doing, Dave, is developing the ultimate user-friendly,'
dialog: interactive public guide to the gallery.
text: Punching buttons on the computer, he reveals wonderful maps of the gallery,
text: and when clicking on sections of the map, graphic explanations of each rooms
dialog: contents.
dialog: 42
text: Meanwhile. Bean has spotted a fan on the other side of the room. He moves
text: around the room, always facing straight to the wall. When he reaches the fan,
text: he switches it on: unfortunately it's a rotating fan - so to keep the wind on
text: his trousers, BEAN has to do a strange, rhythmic dancing movement, following
text: the arc of the fan.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: It's very good Bernie.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: But the particular glory of the system... is that it can also work
dialog: oh large screens in each individual room - so we can network the
text: program to every room in the gallery.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Not bad, eh? What do you think, Doctor? Ah.... Doctor Bean?
text: BEAN turns, shocked to have been observed. He looks down at his trousers
text: and, HOORAY!, they're dry at last. He's delighted, and moves back across
text: the road towards them, hands in pockets, in a big, confident, groin-
text: thrusting, dry-trouser boasting walk.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Well, thanks for dropping by. Enjoy your stay with our Vice
dialog: President and his family. They're simple people.-.but warm,
dialog: yes, Doctor?
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: I'm not actually... um...
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: ... Settled in yet. I know. Plenty of time. Bernie, perhaps
dialog: you'd like to take Dr. Bean on a tour of the gallery.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Absolutely. This way, sir.
text: BEAN displays his crotch proudly one last time before he and BERNIE exit.
text: GRIERSON tries to fathom the strange man who just left.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: He's a genius, right?
dialog: 43
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ah... He certainly has something, sir.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Very pleased you've taken him in, David. At a time when no-one's
dialog: job is safe, it really identifies you as a team player.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes, although, I really..... thank you. Yes, it's great to have
dialog: him with us. The whole family's very excited.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Glad to hear it. Tell poor Mr Larson to come through, will you?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: You're not going to ....
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Sack him? David, what else can I do? This business is not,
dialog: repeat, not breaking even. And David ... notice anything this
dialog: morning?
text: DAVID frowns then sees.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: You've tinted your hair? It takes years off you, sir.
text: GRIERSON beams.
scene_heading: MIX THROUGH TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. RECEPTION AREA - DAY
text: End of the day.. ANNIE perks up at the reception desk as DAVID, but
text: especially BEAN, approaches from the gallery area. She has a pile of
text: tissues near-by and draws a heart on one of them. She arranges it on the
text: counter-top where BEAN could not fail to see it on his way to the exit.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Goodnight Annie.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Night.
text: BEAN does not even notice her. As DAVID heads for the exit, BEAN suddenly
text: sneezes.
speaker_heading: 44
text: He reaches for ANNIE's love message and blows his nose on it. He drops the
text: tissue in a bin as he exits.
text: ANNIE sighs her disappointment.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. BY PARKING LOT - DAY
text: (About 5 p.m.) BEAN and DAVID head for the parking lot. On the way, BEAN's
text: interest is drawn to the MIME ARTIST we met before in his Clinton mask,
text: performing his heart out in front of the Dead Cars sculpture. BEAN lingers.
text: The MIME accosts a woman, pretending to brush dust from her clothes, comb
dialog: her hair etc. The MIME is a bit of a pain in the ass really. The woman
text: quickly moves on.
text: BEAN is intrigued. The MIME mimes climbing a ladder. BEAN goes up next to
text: him - and looks up. There's nothing there. He decides the MIME is a bit of
text: a tricky. This is confirmed when the MIME pretends he's locked behind a
text: pane of glass. BEAN simply pokes his finger through the imaginary glass
text: wall, and hits the MIME's nose.
text: CUT TO: DAVID watching bemusedly some way off.
text: The MIME is however delighted someone is taking an interest at last. He
text: takes a handkerchief from BEAN's pocket, and gets BEAN to guess which hand
text: the hanky's in. It's not in the left. Not in the right. BEAN isn't the
text: slightest bit impressed - he just reaches round and takes the hank-y from
text: where it's tucked into the MIME's trousers - and heads away. As he moves
text: off, the MIME touches h' on the shoulder. BEAN turns and the MIME starts a
text: mocking gun duel. He draws his guns. BEAN is pretty unimpressed.
text: The MIME turns his back and walks the 10 paces to draw. 4 He turns ....
text: But now BEAN decides to settles it once and for all. In a brilliant piece
text: of big mime, he puts together the biggest gun ever seen outside an Arnold
text: Schwarzenegger movie. He sets up a pedestal - opens a case ~ lifts out a
text: hugely heavy gun - then the 7 bits that click on that gun. Then opens
text: another case, and takes out the huge artillery shell to load it.
text: The MIME is getting very frightened. Then BEAN pulls up an imaginary stool
text: to sit behind his mega-Gatling Gun. The MIME begins to run away. BEAN
text: twirls in his imaginary seat, and lines up his sights, following the
text: terrified MIME.
dialog: 45
text: Finally, in a BOOM that almost knocks BEAN out of his imaginary seat, he
text: fires. 10 seconds delay, and the MIME falls in a very dramatic death, 50
text: yards away.
text: BEAN is happy - and heads back to the parking lot where DAVID, arms folded,
text: leans against his car. DAVID gets into his car. BEAN opens the passenger
text: door and thumps it loudly into the side of the expensive car next-door (same
dialog: as this morning).
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SHOPPING MALL. PARKING LOT - DAY
text: DAVID parks next to a beaten up convertible.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Okay. I'll get some steaks. Alison loves steak ... Wine - good.
dialog: Candy? No candy. Alison hates candy. We gotta do this right,
dialog: Bean, or ... (looks at Bean) Just stay out of trouble, okay?
text: BEAN nods. DAVID gets out and heads for the mall. Nearby woman tramp (BAG
text: LADY) goes through a trash can.
text: BEAN tries to control himself but weakens. He plays with all the buttons and
text: switches on the dashboard; windshield wipers, lights. Then he notices a
text: throbbing noise ... He gets out of the car to investigate.
text: BEAN swiftly locates the throbbing sound. The e-empty convertible has its
text: engine running. BEAN notices the keys in the ignition. How stupid of
text: someone. He turns off the engine and takes out the keys. There are several
text: people returning to their cars with groceries. BEAN offers the car keys to
dialog: them as if to say: "Are these yours?"
dialog: [The following should take place at quite a speed, real drama.]
text: Then suddenly, A ROBBER dashes towards BEAN from the direction ' of the Mall,
text: weaving in and out of parked cars, with a small white carrier bag, assumedly
text: full of money. He wears jeans, a black polo-neck and, much to BEAN's delight,
text: a PRESIDENT CLINTON face-mask. As far as BEAN's concerned, this is his old
dialog: friend, the MIME.
text: ROBBER throws the bag of money on to the back seat of the convertible and gets
text: in - but he cant find the keys to start it. He frantically searches all his
dialog: pockets ...
dialog: 46
text: BEAN leans into shot. He holds out the keys, grinning.
speaker_heading: ROBBER
dialog: Gimme the keys!
text: BEAN runs away with them. Or doesn't! He is in mime mode - And runs on the
text: spot, getting faster and faster. The ROBBER approaches this obvious madman.
text: He is quite a tough, scary, and scared individual.
speaker_heading: ROBBER
dialog: I said, give me the keys!
text: BEAN turns and holds out two hands, just like the MIME did to him. The
text: perplexed ROBBER picks one hand. Wrong one. He then.... pulls a gun and puts
text: it hard to MR BEAN in BEAN's face. Passers-by scream and fall to the ground,
text: the bag lady amongst them. Sudden harsh reality.
text: But not to BEAN. He simply takes the gun, and waves it in the ROBBER's face,
text: ticking him off for breaking the rules.
speaker_heading: ROBBER
dialog: OKAY, OKAY - TAKE IT EASY!!!
text: BEAN gestures the ROBBER to turn around. He does, sure this sicko is going
text: simply to shoot him in the head. But instead BEAN puts his back to the
text: ROBBER's back, and starts to count
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: 1,2,3,4, 5, 6,7,8, 9,10
text: He turns and gestures to the ROBBER it's time to draw. By this time a crowd
dialog: has gathered.
speaker_heading: ROBBER
dialog: But I haven't got a f.....
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ssssh!!!!
text: He points out a small child, watching from behind a trash can.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SHOPPING MALL. EXT. COFFEE SHOP ~ DAY
text: DAVID is hurrying back to the parking lot, with a bag of groceries, and a big
text: bunch of red roses.. He stops dead in his tracks as he spots something ...
dialog: 47
text: ALISON and CHARLES are sitting up on stools, in the window of a coffee shop.
text: ALISON laughs at something that CHARLES says. Their body language suggests a
text: certain closeness. DAVID is saddened. He hurries away.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SHOPPING MALL. PARKING LOT ~ DAY
text: BEAN waves the gun at the ROBBER.
speaker_heading: ROBBER
dialog: I haven't got a gun.
text: But BEAN is pushing him to draw. Finally...
speaker_heading: ROBBER
dialog: Okay, okay, I'11 do it!
text: He draws. BEAN draws too. They fire. And BEAN really fires. To his
text: amazement. Onlookers scream. BEAN throws the gun away in startlement.
text: The ROBBER lunges for it ~ BEAN kicks it away, trying to help him avoid such a
dialog: dangerous implement.
text: The ROBBER lunges at BEAN who throws the keys away over his shoulder. The
text: ROBBER has to scrabble under a car for them- BEAN thinks of final joke - and
text: niftly swaps the ROBBER's bag, for one of the Old BAG LADY's bags. A few
text: dollar notes spill out of it.
text: When the ROBBER emerges with the keys, BEAN 's waiting to escort him to his
text: car. He opens the door - then spots a tourist hiding and puts his arm around
text: the ROBBER and gets him to take a photograph of them. BEAN removes the
text: ROBBER's mask as the picture is taken. Forgetting himself, the ROBBER smiles
dialog: for the camera.
text: The ROBBER, jolted back to reality by the sound of approaching Police car
text: sirens, jumps in the car and drives away. BEAN waves goodbye to the
text: convertible as a couple of Police cars screech up. COPS jump out.
text: DAVID approaches the scene with groceries and roses. What kind of hell has
text: BEAN caused now? But instead of trouble, he sees the passers-by are getting
text: to their feet, applauding BEAN and whistling! They crowd round the COPS
text: explaining what a hero BEAN has been.
text: BEAN hands over the gun to a COP. He doesn't really understand what all the
text: fuss is about. He notices the BAG
dialog: 48
text: LADY wandering away with her bags. Should he tell her that he has swapped one
text: of them for the ROBBER'S? No. He's getting too much attention to be bothered.
text: A COP comes up to BEAN. It is COP 1 from the airport scene.
speaker_heading: COP 1
dialog: Excuse me. Mr. er ... Cabbage?
dialog: Sudden mutual recognition.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE PRECINCT. INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT
text: Classic smoked filled room with street light cutting through half closed
text: Venetian blinds. Two or three DETECTIVES slouched in the shadows.
text: BRUTUS, the huge black detective from earlier, sits opposite BEAN at a table,
text: smoking. He is looking at a photo. A close-up reveals it to be a full length
text: one of BEAN and the ROBBER outside the mall with the ROBBER's face unmasked.
text: BRUTUS eyes BEAN for a while. BEAN is terrified. BRUTUS taps the photo.
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: It's Eddie Guardino. Go pick him up.
text: One of the DETECTIVES lazily leaves the room. BRUTUS leans forward on his
dialog: elbows.
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: Guardino fled the scene with 160 K, in a white plastic bag. We got
dialog: the car. We got the bag. And we got 20 pairs of stinking
dialog: pantyhose. (drags on his cigarette) Anything you wanna tell me?
text: BEAN looks at h4-m blankly. BRUTUS holds up the photo.
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: 'Fraid I'm gonna have to keep this.
text: BEAN calmly takes the picture and tears it in half. He gives back the ROBBER
text: half and puts the other half, with himself on, into his pocket. BRUTUS glares
text: at him.
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: Mr. Bean. You lookin' to stay long in California?
dialog: 49
text: BEAN grins. At last. A question he can answer. He nods, happily.
speaker_heading: MR. BEAN
dialog: Oh, yes.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARYS' HOUSE. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: DAVID is talking to KEVIN. BEAN is there. In the background, Jennifer plays
text: with a computer game. DAVID is very animated.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: He was incredible. This guy is fearless. He has no fear.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: That's one - way of looking at it. You might also say this guy is
dialog: brainless he has no brain'.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Well, there is that ...
speaker_heading: KEVIN
speaker_heading: (TO BEAN )
dialog: I'11 give you a chance... Know anything about computers?
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ahm....
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARYS' HOUSE. KEVIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: KEVIN is playing an adventure game: `GOBLINS 2' [This game exists.] The
text: GOBLINS chuckle and make stupid noises that BEAN can imitate. A catchy piece
text: of music accompanies the game.
text: The computer monitor shows the inside of the WIZARD's house. KEVIN moves the
text: GOBLINS, and two little characters, FINGUS and WINKLE, around the room by
text: clicking on areas in the room with his mouse.
text: BEAN and KEVIN are both wearing pointed goblin hats made from newspaper.
dialog: 50
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: It's so embarrassing. All the guys I know are on Goblins 3 and
dialog: I'm still stuck with the lousy Wizard in Goblins 2.
text: BEAN is interested in the computer because he likes the cute little GOBLINS.
text: He gets his delighted face right up to the screen. He sings along with the
text: catchy tune. KEVIN is getting frustrated.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Come on, winkle.
text: KEVIN clicks on a cuckoo clock in the WIZARD's room. The cuckoo pops out
text: holding a key in its beak.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: It's gotta be here. Something to get the key away from the
dialog: stupid cuckoo.
text: BEAN scans the monitor screen: he spots a little frog at the bottom of the
text: scene. His eyes light up. He takes the mouse and rapidly and repeatedly
text: clicks on the frog.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Click, click, click, click, click ...
text: The frog croaks and jumps off a little round stone. KEVIN gets excited.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: How'd you do that!? That was so obvious!!!
text: BEAN grins and makes WINKLE pick up the stone. Then he clicks through to
text: inside the wizard's house. He makes WINKLE throw the stone at the cuckoo
text: which instantly drops the key from its beak.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Beanie, you are waaaaay Cool!
text: KEVIN slaps BEAN on the back. BEAN is delighted. Close on monitor, showing
dialog: The Goblin game-
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM. DAY
text: Another game. JENNIFER'S Super Nintendo game on TV in the lounge area. It
text: is a Gothic game where he-man types attack Vampires and bats with swords.
dialog: 51
text: DAVID is in the kitchen - setting out the roses in a vase. The door opens -
text: enter ALISON. Some tension.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Hi,
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Hi..... (PAUSE ) Roses.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes. And I have a wine for dinner
dialog: that will kill you.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Great. ( SHE SETTLES A LITTLE ) You said you'd ask Grierson about
dialog: putting our guest somewhere else. Did you?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Sort of half.....
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Meaning?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I was sort of half way through the sentence in which I would have
dialog: asked him when it suddenly seemed like a mistake.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Honestly David, you're so spineless.
text: Pause. Jennifer looks around. She can't help but hear. Not a happy
dialog: experience.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Roses. Wine.
text: He is asking her for softness. Pause. At which moment BEAN enters wearing
text: pointy hat. He helps himself to a melon from a bowl. He grins and exits.
text: ALISON looks at DAVID sadly.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: But no real change.
text: Almost instantly, BEAN is back. He rummages through a drawer and takes out
text: some large elastic bands. And leaves.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: I really do need some time on my own. Away from here.
dialog: 52
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Look, Bean's history. I swear to you, he's packing as we speak.
dialog: And you can't leave. ( HE PICKS UP THE BAMBI ) I've got Bambi.
dialog: You never go anywhere without him. Please let's just talk.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Okay. ( GHOST OF A SMILE ) Put Bambi down, and we'll talk.
text: He puts Bambi down on the side-table, on the flat surface of his CD player.
text: BEAN appears again behind her, now looking even madder. Pointy hat, large
text: pointy ears made from melon peel, held in place by the rubber band stretched
text: round his face ~ huge front teeth also cut from the melon. He grins
text: gleefully.
text: DAVID and ALISON just stare. BEAN is followed by KEVIN who wears the same ears
dialog: and teeth.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Look, you guys, could you just give us a moment to ... Jennifer -
dialog: could you turn that damn thing down.
text: It is quite loud. JENNIFER looks for the remote control. BEAN helpfully picks
text: up a remote control from the sofa and points it across the room.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: No, that's not for the TV. That's for the ...
text: Too late! BEAN punches a button and the lid of the CD
text: player launches the Bambi into the air.
text: DAVID sees it. In slow motion he dives dramatically and just misses it. It
text: smashes on the floor.
text: BEAN raises his eyes heavenwards, shakes his head and tuts. He thinks DAVID
dialog: is a real Butter Fingers.
text: JENNIFER, upset, has found the TV remote and unintentionally switches from the
text: Vampire game to a TV channel. It's very loud.
text: ALISON gives DAVID a tearful look, and shakes her head.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE NIGHT.
text: A taxi drives away. Alison is in it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY- NIGHT.
text: JENNIFER and KEVIN are in their night clothes. They sit with David on the
text: stairs ~ still looking at the door-Alison left through.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: I wish I could use that at school. "Hey, Teach, no hard
dialog: feelings ... It's just things between us ain't what they used
dialog: to be and I need a little space, ya know? So I'11 see you
dialog: around in a couple of years, maybe".
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: It's a kind of an interesting swap. Mom for the Man from Ga Ga.
text: She gets up and walks away.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Jen - you don't wanna talk about it?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: It's you and Mom that need to talk.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Sure. You're right.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: You know, Mr. Bean's okay. You're not gonna kick him out, are
dialog: you, Dad?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
speaker_heading: (FROM HER DOOR)
dialog: Of course he is.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Are you?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes, I am. I must.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HALL/BEAN'S ROOM. DAY.
text: DAVID heads for Mr BEAN's room, and knocks cautiously on the door.
speaker_heading: 54
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: (o. o. v)
dialog: Enter.
text: DAVID enters - Camera follows as DAVID finds his way through BEAN's washing
text: hanging from strings across the room. BEAN is sticking things in a picture
dialog: album.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Hi, am I disturbing you?
text: BEAN gives him an affable smile. In a pause before he quite gathers himself
text: to broach the difficult subject, DAVID asks a polite question.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: May I?
text: BEAN acquiesces. He starts from the beginning, with pictures of him as a
dialog: kid. Always standing on his own.
text: Picture of BEAN with mop of frizzy hair, at 16. DAVID smiles. BEAN mimes
dialog: stupid disco dancing.
text: DAVID turns another page. It is a sequence of pictures of BEAN at famous UK
dialog: locations - Big Ben, Stonehenge, Buckingham Palace, 10 Downing Street. They
text: are .idiosyncratic because all taken by him at arms length with his Polaroid
text: - so he never quite makes it squarely into shot.
text: A whole page of Teddy. Then three pages of BEAN's mini with dates, on
dialog: labels, going way back.
text: Then a whole page of garden gnomes.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: None of your folks here - Family?
text: BEAN starts to look for something in particular. DAVID uses the pause to
dialog: broach the awful subject.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Look... the reason I came in here was to ... well... since you've
dialog: been here twelve all...
text: BEAN has found what he was looking for. It is the picture of the family
dialog: that he took from the landing on his first night here. What's left of the
text: Polaroid of himself, from the mall, that he rescued from BRUTUS, is stuck
text: next to it. He's even written - 'Bean &amp; Family' - he doesn't realise there's
text: anything sad about it. But DAVID is rather moved. Pause.
dialog: 55
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Well, that's er...great. Look, I just came in ... (no, he cant do
dialog: it) ... to say good night. Okay?
text: BEAN nods. DAVID smiles and goes to the door.
text: BE-AN waves good-bye a little rudely and gets back to the album. Even when we
text: feel sorry for him, he's a little rude. DAVID walks away, shaking his head.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Spineless.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DAVID AND ALISON'S BEDROOM.
text: The first morning without ALISON. "She's Gone" by Hall &amp; Oats begins to play,
text: a song full of yearning.
text: DAVID feels the other side of the bed. No-one there.
text: He walks into the bathroom and turns on the shower. Then walks back into the
dialog: bedroom - She's gone - I've got to learn how to face it " He takes a towel
text: from a cupboard and returns to the bathroom. He feels very alone.
text: He removes his pyjamas and gets into the steam-filled shower. - she's gone -
text: she's gone" - but the camera moves to reveal that he is not alone after all.
text: BEAN has, simply entered the shower, and is now happily soaping himself,
text: wearing ALISON's shower cap. manly screams from the both of them.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. CANTEEN - DAY.
text: DAVID sitting down at table, with BEAN, who is tucking in happily ~ eating a
text: burger &amp; bun with knife and fork. DAVID speaks after a longish pause.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Bean can I ask you something?
speaker_heading: BEAN nods.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Do you think you can ever really know someone? Even if you've
dialog: known them, well, almost all your life? What do you think?
dialog: 56
text: BEAN thinks hard, then looks at his watch, makes his excuses and simple
text: walks away.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GALLERY CORRIDOR. DAY.
text: BEAN at a pay phone. He dials carefully-
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEAN'S BED-SIT. DAY
text: 10 am U.K. time. (The following takes place in a matter of seconds) Close on
text: the T.V. A morning kids show blares out. A huge wardrobe stands four feet
text: away from a wall. There is a string tied to one of it's door handles,
text: stretching out of shot. The wardrobe seems to be leaning backwards at an
text: angel. It rocks slightly and creaks. (Feature its padlock).
text: There is a folded ironing board balanced over a roll of hall carpet, see-saw
text: fashion. One end of it is wedged under the wardrobe.
text: BEAN's G.P.O. phone rings on the table and it's vibrations cause the bust of
text: BEETHOVEN to fall over the edge of the table. It lands on the end of the
text: ironing board. The Wardrobe groans as it is set off balance and falls
text: against the wall with a heavy thump! and raising of dust. The string tied
text: to its handle becomes taut.
text: CUT TO: the T.V. plug in its socket. This end of the string is tied to it.
text: The string tightens and the plug is yanked out of the socket.
text: The T.V. screen goes blank. Shot of TEDDY in the cardboard hotel'.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CANTEEN. DAY.
text: BEAN returns, sits down and starts to eat again. David is still deep in
dialog: thought.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Well, they say there's only one way to get over this sort of
dialog: thing. Take it day by day. Keep working. Keep to your normal
dialog: patterns. That's the only hope. So let's just ... take today
dialog: shall we?
dialog: 57
text: BEAN nods. He is not on David's emotional level here.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I think the time has come from you to meet the grand Madame.
dialog: She's all around you ... how do you fancy meeting her in the
dialog: flesh?
text: Sure enough, all around are posters, and the silhouette of Whistler's
text: Mother. BEAN nods, though fairly distracted by the slice of gherkin he's
text: found in his bun and now picks out with his fingers.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. CORRIDOR - DAY.
text: BEAN and David en route to the painting.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I usually only let her out for the big summer exhibition - but'
dialog: let's see whether what they say about the healing power of great
dialog: works of art is true, huh?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE WHOLE GALLERY - DAY
text: BEAN and DAVID do the rest of the journey, in quick cuts - along corridors -
text: in an elevator. A sense of expectation and excitement. En route, they are
text: joined by ELMER, the huge Security Guard.
text: The three arrive outside a large oak door. ELMER ceremoniously unlocks the
text: door, all the time glaring at BEAN - who swallows hard. A light turns green
text: and a buzzer sounds.
text: Then there is the door to the inner sanctum. ELMER stares at BEAN as he
text: unlocks it. Another light turns green and another buzzer sounds.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: As you can see, security's pretty tight in this section. Nobody
dialog: gets past Elmer here. Isn't that right?
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: Not in one piece anyway. I see Mrs Whistler as kind of ... like
dialog: my own dear mother. I'd kill any man that tried to interfere with
dialog: her. The Vice President here will vouch for that.
dialog: 58
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: You've known me five years Elmer. When do you get to calling me
dialog: David?
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: Not my place, sir. It would only be a matter of time before I'm
dialog: calling you Dave. Then where would we be? By next year, you're
dialog: my Sweety-Pie" and I'm "Coochie-Coo". I'11 be back in 15.
text: He salutes, glares at BEAN and walks away. BEAN and DAVID enters the room.
text: BEAN looks warily back at ELMER
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: You think he's tough you should see the size of the hunk that
dialog: works the night shift.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. THE WHISTLER ROOM - DAY.
text: The room is very dark, only tiny lights in the corner.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Stay there. Keep your eyes closed. One final lock, one final key.
text: DAVID unlocks double doors in a wall with a plastic key card. Buzz - click!
text: The camera holds on BEAN, his eyes tight shut. The lights go up on BEAN's
text: face, a magical golden glow.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Right. Open now.
text: Cut round - and there is this beautiful and very famous painting, lovingly
text: shot. Music. Atmosphere. Glory.
text: BEAN opens his eyes and looks at the painting.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Mmmmm. Nice.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I'11 leave you with her for a few minutes. I'm sure you'll want
dialog: to give her a proper inspection. But whatever you do, don't leave
dialog: the room. Megasecurity, okay? Catch you.
text: BEAN nods. DAVID leaves him. BEAN is still for a while and then goes up and
text: inspects it closely.
dialog: 59
text: He tuts disapprovingly as he spots dust on the bottom of the frame. He blows
text: it away fussily. He steps back to admire the painting. There is dust up his
dialog: nose and... SNEEZE - all over the painting!
text: He takes out his handkerchief and wipes the spittle off in panic. Then looks
text: back at the painting. Unfortunately, there now seems to be a big blue mark
text: right across Mrs Whistler's face..
text: BEAN checks his handkerchief. Yes, there's wet ink all over it. He finds the
text: leaking pen in his pocket. 0 God. He takes out his shirt, spits on it and
text: tries to wipe the painting, but he can't make the shirt reach it. He takes
text: the painting down from the wall and has another go. NO GOOD! The ink just
text: spreads right over Whistler's Mother's pure white collar.
text: BEAN now looks round in panic. What the hell can he do? He goes to the heavy
text: door - and looks out into the corridor. He hears someone coming, hides and
text: sees a young girl from the catering staff wheeling a slightly squeaky trolley
text: past, covered with a white cloth.
text: He goes back in - and has an idea. He goes to a little table in the corner
text: and begins to take thing off it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GALLERY. UPSTAIRS CORRIDOR - DAY.
text: The door opens, and BEAN emerges, pushing what appears to be a trolley covered
dialog: with a white cloth. Although, if you look carefully, this trolley actually
text: has no legs. It is the painting covered with the table cloth. To make it a
text: bit more convincing, BEAN makes an apt squeaky noise.
text: He proceeds along the thin corridor - and then sees another exactly similar
text: trolley coming right towards him.' A problem. As they get close, BEAN
text: suddenly pretends he sees something astonishing behind the on-coming man.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: (silently mouths)
dialog: What the ... !!!
text: When the man turns, BEAN just twists his painting sideways and shoots past
text: him. We see the face of the deeply perplexed trolley-pusher when he looks
text: back and BEAN is no longer there. He turns round to BEAN, who turns back to
text: him with a totally blank and innocent look. BEAN sees an elevator and heads
dialog: for it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 60
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. ELEVATOR - DAY
text: Inside the elevator, BEAN relaxes for a moment. He leans the painting against
text: the wall and presses the third floor button. The bell dings.
speaker_heading: ELEVATOR VOICE
dialog: Second floor.
text: BEAN manages to get the painting into trolley position before the doors open
text: to a group of six very fat middle aged people. They all wear large badges
text: declaring them to be members of a 'Diet Club'. They squeeze into the elevator
text: along both sides of BEAN's trolley. There is a very, very, THIN WOMAN behind
dialog: them who can't fit on.
speaker_heading: THIN WOMAN
dialog: I guess I'll see you up there, guys.
text: The doors close. As the painting is wedged against the fat people's stomachs
text: on both sides, BEAN is able to let go of it and make a great show of checking
text: his watch. He nonchalantly, drums the fingers of both hands on the top of the
text: trolley'. The bell dings.
speaker_heading: ELEVATOR VOICE
dialog: Third floor.
text: The doors open. BEAN flips the painting onto its side and strolls out of the
text: elevator. The 'Diet Cub, members stare, after him.
text: BEAN heads on, squeaking - and at last sees what he's looking for. A men's
dialog: room.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. MEN'S ROOM - DAY
text: BEAN enters, relieved. It is small, just a little sink, a towel and a toilet.
text: About a yard wide - but the picture fits in.
text: BEAN starts to wash the painting very carefully and lo!! The ink starts to
text: come off. Massive relief. Then, alas, someone tries the handle of the door.
text: BEAN speeds up. A knock. He peers out the keyhole. There are now 4 people
text: waiting. BEAN is very worried.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 61
scene_heading: INT.-GRIERSON GALLERY. OUTSIDE MEN'S ROOM - DAY
text: Pause. Then out comes BEAN, drying his empty hands, miming, "Sorry, Sorry.".
text: We see into the toilet. nothing there. No sign of the painting. BEAN turns
dialog: sharply left.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GRIERSON GALLERY - DAY
text: DAVID is talking to BERNIE in the grounds. We can see the side of the whole
text: gallery in shot as they talk.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: I was hoping DU. Bean might take a look at my computer project
dialog: today.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes. I'11 mention it to him. But ... he's kind of his own guy,
dialog: you know?
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Howls he getting on with the family?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ah. Fine. It's good. It's great.
dialog: We will be slightly distracted by the observation that Whistler's Mother,
text: America's most valuable painting, is at this moment balanced on a very thin
text: ledge three floors up - where Bean has put in, outside the Men's room
text: window. A bird and then a couple more birds perch on it.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: And howls Alison?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: She's ... well, she's good.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Saw her at the movies the other night with that boss of hers.
dialog: Nice guy. Good looking.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes, isn't he.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: It's great when people who work together can become real friends.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Isn't it?
dialog: 62
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: I like to think that's what's happened with you and me ... even
dialog: though you're kinda my boss. Still maybe it won't always be that
dialog: way, huh?
text: DAVID doesn't quite see what BERNIE is getting at but smiles politely.
text: Now we see BEAN's plan - he has emerged at a nearby window. He can't reach
text: the painting at first. So he stretches further and further out the window.
text: No good. Finally he has to go out on the ledge. He shoos away the birds, who
text: then decide to settle on him instead. Finally he gets a hand on the painting.
text: As he does so, he loses hold. He just manages to grabs a window before he
dialog: falls.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Look, I've left Bean on his own. Nice to chat though Bernie -
dialog: always a subtle joy.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Thanks, David. Always a pleasure.
dialog: Period.
text: BEAN is slowly managing to claw his way back towards the open window with the
text: painting. It is an extraordinary piece of acrobatics. DAVID turns to go.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: By the way. Don't know what you think, Mr Vice President, but
dialog: I've been hinting to the old man that someone's got to have the
dialog: balls to take some sort of emergency measures around here - or
dialog: we're all in the
dialog: crap house. What do you think?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: 'Emergency measures, in your book means sack people right?
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Not necessarily. That's where this ... ( POINTS TO HIS BRAIN )
dialog: comes in. No, I've had a better idea than sacking people. You'll
dialog: hear soon enough.
text: BERNIE grins and walks away. Bean does one final swing, and ....
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 63
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. STOREROOM - DAY.
text: A small storeroom where Bean's wriggling bottom is just coming back through
text: the window. He has the picture and is safe.
text: He sets the picture down on a table. Darn! The birds have done their
dialog: business on it.
text: He maniacally rummages through various dusty cans and bottles on a shelf. He
text: chooses a can, too rusty to read its label, takes off the lid and sniffs.
text: This smells like the right sort of stuff. He pours the liquid on to a rag and
text: rubs it on the face of Mrs. Whistler. The solvent effortlessly removes the
text: ink stain. Whistler's Mother looks as good as new.
text: BEAN is so, so, relieved. But then he notices something else happening. The
text: liquid did not stop with removing the stain. It is now busy removing
text: Whistler's Mother's face entirely. As Bean watches-in frozen horror,
text: America's most famous painting turns back to a blank canvas.
text: BEAN thinks for a second - and then has a desperate thought. Removing the pen
text: that started all the trouble, he decides to try to draw back on Whistler's
text: Mother's 'face. He doesn't have much time. It shows. Where once was a
text: sublime oil painting, is now a biro line-drawing which looks a little like
dialog: Danny de Vito.
text: Bean lifts it against the wall to check how it's worked. Unfortunately,
text: there's a nail there. The picture tears, Bean panics - it tears even more.
dialog: Total destruction.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. CORRIDOR - DAY.
text: BEAN Hurries down the corridor with his pseudo-trolley again, and a vaguely
text: mad look on his face. He spots ANNIE at a drinks machine. She smiles sweetly
text: (here comes her man) BEAN takes a sharp left into an adjacent corridor. ANNIE
text: is hurt.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: True love can be very hard.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. THE WRONG ROOM - DAY
text: Close on the double doors (identical to those of the Whistler Room) BEAN
text: enters with the Painting, under the
dialog: 64
text: cloth. He closes the doors and rests a moment to catch his breath. He takes a
text: step into the room and freezes.
text: The very fat 'Diet Club, people are seated at easels, paint brushes poised.
text: The very THIN WOMAN is standing in the centre of the room in her underwear
text: with a Greek urn perched on her shoulder. All eyes are on BEAN, who exits
text: very quickly.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. INNER SANCTUM. WHISTLER ROOM DAY.
text: BEAN gets back to the right rooms and closes the door desperately behind him.
text: He stands frozen for a second - and at that moment, a hand tries the door.
text: BEAN leaps at it and stops. the handle turning. Then there's a knock. BEAN
text: moves the big table in front of the door - he's barricading himself in.
text: There's a famous Rodin sculpture in there - he shoves it along to block, the
text: door as well. When he's succeeded, he leans hot and sweaty against it - and a
text: door on the other side of the room calmly opens and .... DAVID walks in.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Seems to be a problem with the door.(PAUSE) Where's the picture
dialog: gone?
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ahm.....
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: What? What?
text: Pause. Pause. BEAN finally shows it. Not a pretty sight.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Oh Jesus. Oh God. Oh Jesus God. Oh Mary Mother of Jesus. Oh
dialog: Jesus of Nazareth.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: oh dear.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: What happened?!!!
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ahm.... (setting himself up for an interesting, comprehensive
dialog: answer).
dialog: 65
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Don't bother (panicking) Oh my god.....
text: He rushes to the door he just came in - and locks it.
dialog: Wait a minute - why am I worrying about this? I did it. I just go
dialog: out and tell them what happened - you're a madman from England and
dialog: you did this terrible thing and it's not my fault. That's right,
dialog: isn't it?
text: BEAN nods, knowing he deserves his doom.
text: Perfect - and then they say - who left him alone with the
dialog: picture?" And I say - "me". And they say "you're fired". And I
dialog: say ' right'. And so I get fired and you go to jail and no one's
dialog: any happier.
text: BEAN shakes his head.
dialog: And then they say, "firing David isn't enough - let's prosecute
dialog: him for negligence. And they prosecute me and it turns out I was
dialog: negligent and I go to jail, and my wife leaves me and my daughter
text: becomes a prostitute and I end up on Death Row sharing a cell with
dialog: Butch McDick, the infamous gay rapist - or worse, I end up in the
dialog: same cell as you!
text: BEAN looks hurt.
dialog: No, no...Now, let's just be calm let's think about this calmly.
dialog: (he tries - and fails ... ) Oh Godigodigod! Okay, now wait.
dialog: Let's have another look at it.
text: BEAN shows it to him.
dialog: Jesus!!! I'm already thinking back to 5 minutes ago as paradise.
dialog: 5 minutes ago - just walking along, shooting the breeze with my
dialog: old pal Bernie.
text: BEAN then he has a brilliant idea. He hangs the painting back up in the
text: security cupboard and closes the doors. Then he removes from his pocket a
dialog: small note book.
dialog: 66
text: He scribbles something on it, tears the page out, licks it and sticks it on
text: the cupboard door. It reads `OUT OF ORDER'.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Brilliant. Brilliant. Problem solved!
text: BEAN is delighted.
text: Apart from the tiny drawback that the first person who opens the
dialog: cupboard will say -"Look, someone's totally destroyed Whistler's
dialog: Mother- let's kill them".
text: BEAN is less delighted.
dialog: No - the most important thing is tbat no-one sees it.
dialog: Ever again!
text: He locks the cupboard with his plastic card key-
dialog: That's the first thing. Then ... that's the first thing....
dialog: Next ... next is the next thing which is... obviously... ritual
dialog: suicide. Look, let's get out of here. Try to act natural.
text: The let themselves out and go into the corridor- BEAN acting his version of
dialog: `natural' - very liquid.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR. DAY-
text: They bump straight into GRIERSON and ELMER.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Ah, David. Showing Dr. Bean our good lady?
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Actually I'm not a...
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: That's right - Whistler's Mother. Looking at his mother - not his
dialog: father - not interested in his father, Couldn't give a flying
dialog: doughnut for his sisters or brothers - just his mother. Yes.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Well, good - think I may go and look at her myself...
dialog: 67
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Er ... pray tell me why?
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: Because they've just cut her into tiny pieces, sir. That's why.
text: BEAN and DAVID die and go to hell until ELMER laughs at his own little joke.
text: GRIERSON laughs too.
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: I better continue my rounds, sir..
text: He strolls away.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: The thing is, sir, I've just been giving the painting a very
dialog: thorough inspection, with the help of Dr Bean here - and we feel
text: the time's come for Whistler's Mum to have her first face-lift.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Time taken its toll on the old girl, eh?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Exactly. She's in a surprisingly terrible state. Isn't she,
dialog: Bean?
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Oh yes.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Whistler was a great painter, but he wasn't a great chooser of
dialog: paints ....
text: BEAN hudders at the thought of his paint-choosing.
dialog: The colours are beginning to fade. However ~ if you give me just one little
dialog: year I can restore the picture to its original glory, the way it looked when
dialog: Whistler's Mom first looked at it and said.... 0 Actually I'm not sure you've
dialog: got the hair right, darling." By the way, your hair is looking great today,
dialog: sir.
dialog: 68
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Thank you David. However, flattery will get you nowhere. Truth
dialog: is, I have a rather different plan for Whistler's dear Mama.
dialog: Bernie and I have been inspecting our books - and the long and
dialog: short of it is, we cannot survive with our current losses, so ...
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: ... you have to sack me. I understand, sir. I'll go quietly. In
dialog: fact I'll go right now.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: No. no, no, hold on ... We cant sustain our loses - so I've
dialog: decided.. to sell Whistler's Mother.
text: DAVID lets out a little yelp.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Brilliant, huh? I already have a prospective buyer - the current
dialog: Governor of California, no less, who is flies in tomorrow to
dialog: inspect her and clinch the deal. Spread the news. I think
dialog: decisive leadership has done the trick, don't you?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Congratulations. Marvellous thing. Bravo.
text: GRIERSON leaves. DAVID turns to BEAN.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Bean. Do you drink?
text: BEAN shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Neither do I.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BAR - NIGHT
text: It is very late and very gloomy. Just a couple of loners staring into their
text: drinks. The BARTENDER is up one end of the counter, smoking and reading the
text: sports pages. There is a T.V. on above the bar, showing baseball.
dialog: 69
text: BEAN and DAVID are sitting up at the bar. The latter has had far too much
text: whisky and looks the worse for it. BEAN has a tall glass packed with fruit
text: and paper umbrellas. We can guess how much he's had to drink by the way he
text: has difficulty finding the straw with his mouth. DAVID almost, but not quite,
dialog: slurs his words:
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: It's just a matter of acceptance, isn't it ... lose your job -
dialog: lose you wife ... C'est la vie. You ever been married, Bean?
text: He turns to BEAN who has the end of a straw up his nose.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I guess not.
text: He fills his glass from a bottle.
dialog: You know, I don't get it. The New Artist exhibition-this year -
dialog: people might not all have liked the dead sheep, but ... the place
dialog: didn't look that empty to me. It wasn't full but I saw people. I
dialog: just don't understand how the gallery can be so bankrupt they have
dialog: to sell the Whistler.
text: He looks at BEAN who now has peanuts in each nostril.
text: DAVID notices the BARTENDER looking at BEAN strangely ....
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: He's English, okay? You wanna make something of it?
text: BARTENDER goes back to reading. DAVID searches for his last train of thought,
text: taking a huge swig from his drink.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: ... To hell with the figures. I'm not a damn accountant. I'm an
dialog: artist. You know, me and Ali met in art school? I cut quite a
dialog: figure then. Far cry from the man you see before you now. Then,
dialog: I smoked Gitanes before I went to bed, to help me sort out the
dialog: problems of the world. Now, I take a spoonful of laxative before
text: I go to bed to help me sort out the problem with my bowels.
dialog: 70
text: BEAN at that moment is keen to show DAVID his nut trick. He throws a peanut
text: high into the air - and catches it in his mouth. Then does two. Then does it
text: with his eyes closed. Actually, it's rather impressive.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Truth is, I disappointed her. I turned out to have no spine.
dialog: Spineless. A kind of medical miracle. Mr Flippy-Floppy. I
dialog: just don't seem to be able to fight - cant stick up for myself.
dialog: Too nice. I mean, I should never have let you come stay and I
dialog: should be handing you over to the police right now. Shall I
dialog: tell you something, Beanie ...
dialog: Bean has been interested all this, even looking to check whether David does
text: indeed have no spine. But now the baseball on the TV is making it hard for
text: him to concentrate on-this important confidence. He raises a finger, for
text: DAVID to be quiet for a second. He blows a peanut from his, nostril at the
text: T.V. - it hits the button, and changes station to a pleasant quiet-music
dialog: station.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Do you want to know what the reality of the situation is?
text: BEAN nods his head, very curious, listening hard.
dialog: This is it. Because you moved into my house, my wife has left
dialog: me. She might have done it anyway - but you were the ten ton
text: weight that broke the camel's spinal column.
text: BEAN stares at DAVID - something is getting in he's actually registering this.
dialog: That's point one. And point two - is that you've destroyed
dialog: Whistler's Mother, which was' the last hope for the place where
dialog: I work. So within a week, I'm going to lose my job as well.
text: BEAN nods, seriously dispirited.
dialog: 71
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: So, you've totally and utterly destroyed my life. Do you
dialog: understand? You've put me in a position where it would have been
dialog: better if I'd never been born.
text: He puts his hand on BEAN'S shoulder. BEAN looks down.
text: Very sad. This is actually the first time in his life that he's realised that
text: his actions have really effected the life of another person. BEAN looks up
text: sadly. Sad music plays.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LEARY HOUSE. DAVID'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: DAVID is asleep in bed. The camera moves out into the hall and into BEAN's
dialog: room.
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. BEAN'S ROOM- NIGHT.
text: BEAN is lying, fully dressed, in the darkness, on his back. Thinking.
text: Worried by what he's heard. Then suddenly an idea comes into his eyes. The
text: music is like his brain He jumps off the bed.
text: There follows a version of the classic tooling up for action sequence. But
text: the 'tools' here are distinctly bizarre. BEAN picks up his suitcase, and in
text: quick cuts, rushes through the house and collects....
scene_heading: DAVID'S PLASTIC KEY CARD
scene_heading: A PAIR OF Y-FRONTS
speaker_heading: A TORCH.
scene_heading: SOME OF KEVIN'S CHEWING GUM. 6 EGGS
speaker_heading: A COOKING BASIN
speaker_heading: A CUP
text: A LARGE PAINT BRUSH
text: A BOTTLE OF CLEAR NAIL VARNISH DAVID'S LARGE TIN OF LAXATIVE. A HAIR DRIER
speaker_heading: AN ACTION MAN DOLL
text: A POSTER OF THE GIRL AND HER BOTTOM WITH THE TENNIS BALL.
speaker_heading: TWO OVEN GLOVES
speaker_heading: A SKATEBOARD
scene_heading: AND 4 VOLUMES OF THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA.
text: Fully tooled, he snaps the suitcase shut.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 72
scene_heading: EXT. GALLERY. NIGHT.
text: The building is floodlit by ground spots.
text: BEAN arrives silently, with suitcase, on the skateboard. Soon his full plan
text: will be revealed. The Gallery is empty, apart from the one Security Guard,
text: BUCK, visible through the glass front of the building, drinking coffee,
text: watching his 12 security monitors. BEAN swallows at the sight of BUCK - he is
text: a massive gorilla of a man.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. RECEPTION - NIGHT.
text: BUCK is casually watching his screens, when suddenly, horror of horror, the
text: huge silhouette of a person hanging .themselves from a tree outside appears,
text: the shadow of the limp body thrown across the floodlit gallery wall. BUCK
text: frantically rushes out. And BEAN subtly slips in.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GRIERSON GALLERY - NIGHT.
text: BUCK is looking for the body amongst the trees. He finds nothing. Because he
text: fails to notice the tiny ACTION MAN swinging gently in front of one of the
text: ground-level floodlights.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY - NIGHT'.
text: Inside, BEAN is casually pouring the entire contents of DAVID's large laxative
text: tin into BUCK's coffee. He also swaps two keys on the board of keys by the
text: desk. He then takes the opportunity to put the oven gloves on his feet, one
text: shaped like a pig, one like a crocodile, so he can move silently.
text: BUCK returns. He sits down, and takes a long gulp of coffee. Pause. BEAN
text: watches. BUCK feels something uncomfortable in his stomach. He takes a key
text: from his rack of keys, and sets off and rounds a corner- On a monitor screen,
text: BEAN watches him break into a canter - as he passes through another monitor
text: BUCK is at full sprint. BEAN giggles.
text: BEAN is satisfied he'll be uninterrupted for a while. He goes to the key-
text: rack, borrows two keys, and sets off on his mission. The next 3 minutes of
text: film are a sequence of cuts between three scenarios:
dialog: 73
text: FIRST: BUCK - his next 10 minutes are not happy ones. When he reaches the
text: toilet, the key he chose does not unlock it. He has to sprint back, grab all
text: the keys, and charge back again to the door. Then he has to try out every
dialog: single key. We never see him find the right one.
text: SECOND scenario - all the activities of the night shown on the security
text: monitors. BUCK sprinting desperately through shot - BEAN casually going about
text: his business and, on one occasion, BUCK running right past BEAN, but not
text: seeing him - he has other things on his mind.
text: THIRD scenario - we actually see BEAN's Big Plan.
text: He unlocks the merchandise shop. So he can see properly and have his hands
text: free, he puts the y-fronts on his head, and wedges the torch into them, like a
text: head-lamp. He then takes a poster of Whistler's Mother and replaces it with
text: the rolled-up Tennis Ball Girl. He unrolls the Whistler and places the 4
text: encyclopaedias on its corners to hold it down.
text: He separates the yokes from the eggs, mixes the whites with clear nail varnish
text: and varnishes the-poster with it. Dries it off with the hair drier.
text: ,With the now stiff poster, he heads up elevators and escalators to get to the
text: Whistler Room itself, all the time chewing gum frantically. Once there, he
text: unlocks the final cupboard with David's plastic key, takes the Whistler down
text: and removes the destroyed Mother from its gilded frame, and its wooden support
text: frame. He uses the chewed gum to stick the new one down to the old frame.
text: He then puts the very convincing forgery back into the security cupboard and
text: relocks it with DAVID's key card.
text: The job is done. He scrunches up the old, torn picture, pops it in a dustbin,
text: and heads off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET. NIGHT-
text: BEAN zipping along on the skate board with his suitcase.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. UTILITY ROOM - NIGHT.
text: BUCK, trouserless, is sitting, reading a newspaper next to a noisy washing
dialog: machine.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 74
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. BEAN'S ROOM. NIGHT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: BEAN lies back in bed with quiet satisfaction.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DAVID'S ROOM. MORNING.
text: DAVID wakes with a violent start.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: 0 my God. Tell it vas a dream.
text: The door swings open. It is Bean with a tray of coffee and toast.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Morning.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: It wasn't a dream, was it. I have to go in to work and tell them
text: Whistler's Mother now looks like Danny De Vito.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Well, Ahm....
text: He laughs cheerily.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DAVID'S CAR.
text: Bean is still chuckling.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GALLERY. CORRIDOR.
text: Still highly amused, BEAN guides DAVID in the direction of Whistler's Room.
text: David takes out his key to open the room - but the door swings open. DAVID
text: is shocked. There stands GRIERSON, looking straight at Whistler's Mum. In
text: all its untorn, unsmudged, undestroyed glory.
dialog: 75
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: I think you're wrong, David. She looks as fine as she's ever
dialog: looked. Worth every cent of the 10 million dollar-s.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ahm....
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Bravo. Let's put on a good show tomorrow, shall we? Don't want
dialog: anything to go wrong.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Quite right, sir.
text: Grierson leaves. David gets close to the painting and peers ....
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Wait a minute.
text: BEAN just puts his finger to his mouth...
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ssshhhh.
text: He lets out a hug smile - he can solve the problems of the world, as well as
dialog: create them.
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. HALL- SATURDAY
text: JENNIFER skips down t-he stairs, carrying a trendy duffel bag, just as DAVID
text: enters from the kitchen.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Bye, Dad.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ah ... Jennifer, I need you to watch Kevin. Jen?
text: But JENNIFER has already reached the front door ....
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Be serious, Dad. It's Saturday.
text: She exits.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 76
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE - DAY
text: JENNIFER is heading down the path. DAVID runs out of the house and catches up
dialog: with her.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Jen, you have to help me here! I've got to go in to work, and
dialog: with your mom away ... I really need you.
text: A powerful motorbike turns into the drive at speed and skids round to face the
text: opposite direction. JENNIFER runs over to it. The bike's rider turns off his
text: engine and removes his helmet. It is STINGO, the white Rasta from the
text: airport, with the hair extensions and the sixty rings in his nose.
speaker_heading: STINGO
speaker_heading: (to DAVID)
dialog: You.
text: He hands JENNIFER a helmet.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Don't worry, Dad. I'll be home. Monday, after school.
text: BEAN and KEVIN arrive at DAVID's side to spectre.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Hey, En, nice bike'- but remember: any kids you have are gonna
text: look just like its handsome driver.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: (angry now)
dialog: Jennifer! This is not - repeat, not! how we do things in this
dialog: family. I've told you never to get on one of those death traps!
dialog: Please - talk to me. I promise to be reasonable.
text: JENNIFER has put on the helmet and is climbing onto the back of the bike.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Great, Dad. You promised you'd get rid of him! (points at Bean)
dialog: And as for: "how we do things in this family. We don't have a
dialog: family till you get Mom back.
dialog: 77
text: She slaps STINGO on the shoulder. STINGO kicks the starter lever. Nothing.
dialog: Again. Nothing ...
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Come on Sting!
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Sting?! Sounds like something you put on a rash.
text: STINGO is still kicking the starter. DAVID is desperate.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Don't just stand there, Bean - do something.
text: BEAN instantly takes on the hero's mantle and runs to the bike. DAVID is not
text: far behind him. STINGO is still trying to kick start it. BEAN takes out a
text: small screwdriver and twiddles with something on the engine.
text: The bike sparks into life and does a wheelie before speeding out of the drive
text: and down the road. BEAN stands, hands on hips, looking very-pleased with
dialog: himself indeed.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: To BEAN ) Right! Right! You get inside and look after Kevin!
dialog: (not such a good idea) Uh --- Right! Kevin. You get inside and
dialog: look after ... uh... (that would be a worse idea) Right! Get in
dialog: the car! Both of you. Jesus!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. RECEPTION AREA - DAY
text: DAVID, BEAN and KEVIN at the reception desk.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: So, Kevin. How's it going?
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Badly. You wanna adopt me?
text: ANNIE smiles cutely at BEAN. DAVID is still rattled.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Big day today, huh?
dialog: 78
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Uh ... yes ...
text: DAVID looks askance at BEAN. BERNIE hurries up and takes DAVID to one side.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Great day. At last we can start getting out of debt and
dialog: concentrating on the future.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes, look, I wanted to talk to you about this. I'm sure we
dialog: haven't been doing as badly as all that.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: You're an innocent and an optimist David - that's why I love
dialog: you. (he hugs him and laughs). Jesus - what a terrible tie-
dialog: Come on, the Governor's coming at 3. And before then I have a
dialog: little surprise for you and the Boss.
text: DAVID calls to ANNIE.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Annie ... would you look after Kevin? And Kevin - you look after
dialog: Bean.
text: He heads off with BERNIE. Back at the counter. BEAN, KEVIN &amp; ANNIE.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: My Dad told me all about you.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Did he now?
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: He says you've got a babe count of ten out of ten, and a brain
dialog: cell count of about two and a half.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Yeah, I'll go with that. I'm kinda, like, dumb, intellectually.
dialog: (to Bean) But I'm great in bed.
text: BEAN is unsettled by this. He gives a shudder and heads for the gallery.
dialog: 79
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Catch you later, babe.(goes after Bean) Come on, Beanie - there
dialog: must be a computer here somewhere. I hate paintings. They don't
dialog: do anything.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON'S OFFICE. DAY.
text: BERNIE, DAVID and GRIERSON. BERNIE looks very confident at a computer
text: monitor. A painting is in fact 'doing' something, on the computer screen, as
text: the girls in a Toulouse-Lautrec painting actually dance the can-can.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Well, congratulations. Isn't that great, David?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Certainly is.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: We'll be able to start this afternoon. I'11 pipe the guide to
dialog: every video screen in the gallery. Now, that'll impress the
dialog: Governor.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Well, bravo! What with you and Whistler's Ma - I think I've got a
dialog: winning team.
text: DAVID slightly embarrassed not to be included in the winning team. He looks
text: to the poster of Whistler's Mother behind GRIERSON's desk.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. BERNIE'S ROOM - DAY
text: KEVIN and BEAN have found a computer, also showing BERNIE's Gallery programme.
text: The monitor shows the interior of the ground floor of the gallery. KEVIN
text: clicks, and up comes the same Toulouse Lautrec picture. As KEVIN works the
text: mouse, BEAN hums the catchy tune from 'GOBLINS 21. It's play time again.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: This is way cool, Beanie.
text: He clicks again, and a tiny talking Toulouse Lautrec starts to explain the
dialog: provenance of the painting.
dialog: 80
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. THE WHISTLER ROOM. DAY
text: DAVID is overseeing things. There's a burgundy rope, keeping people a bit
text: away from the case in which Whistler's Mother is contained. ELMER brings in
text: two large flower displays. BERNIE enters.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Jesus! Hurry up you guys. Am I the only person round here who
dialog: actually gets things done.
text: He exits. BERNIE is growing in confidence - and getting nastier by the
text: minute. DAVID pulls a face at ELMER.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: You arrange those flowers yourself?
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: Sure did.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: They're pretty. Learn it in the army?
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: No - but when you've torn out a man's throat with your bare hands,
dialog: you learn to appreciate the beautiful things in life.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY - DAY
text: The final touches in the preparation for the big visit to up-tempo, "we're
dialog: getting ready" music.
text: 1. Gardeners gardening, window cleaners cleaning, polishers polishing etc.
text: And someone empties a dustbin, in the midst of which we glimpse something
text: which might be a scrunched up old Whistler painting.
text: 2. BERNIE watches as someone plugs in a plug - and a huge video screen in
text: the gallery flickers and starts up.
text: 3. ANNIE at her counter, reading a book called 'The Art of Conversational.
text: She shakes an imaginary hand and rehearses a keen conversation with an
dialog: imaginary V.I.P.
dialog: 81
text: 4. ELMER, in the men's room mirror, trims his hair around his peaked hat
text: with scissors. He has a row of war medals on his chest. He polishes them
text: proudly with his sleeve.
text: 5. GRIERSON watches through the front glass - a red carpet rolls itself out
text: from the gallery's main entrance to stop by the rear door of a black car.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY - DAY
text: Close on the bottom of the black cars rear door. It opens and a pair of legs,
text: wearing black shoes and charcoal trousers, step out onto the red carpet. As
text: they walk purposely up the carpet, the camera pans up their owner's body, to
text: reveal that this is BERNIE. It's a rehearsal. He is met with a hand shake by
text: GRIERSON at the main entrance.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: What a pleasure, Governor Reynolds. I'd like you to meet some of
dialog: our staff here. (checks a prompt card).
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: And that's where you introduce me to the Governor.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Right. Got it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. RECEPTION AREA - DAY
text: Gallery staff wait, all wearing name badges. GRIERSON leads BERNIE to the
text: reception counter. ANNIE steps out from behind it and shakes BERNIE's hand.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Good day, Governor Reynolds. I'm Annie ...
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Curtsy.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Curtsy? Are you kidding? This is 1990s America. Women don't
dialog: curtsy, they run the damn country!
dialog: 82
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Alex, please!
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: That's Annie, sir.
text: GRIERSON takes BERNIE on to ELMER who is next in line.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: This is Elmer, our longest serving...
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Hey. Let's junk the medals, Elmer. This is not a Veterans'
dialog: reunion. We wanna make the Governor feel at home. Not remind him
text: of piles of dead people wearing uniforms.
text: ELMER puts on a defiant face. DAVID shakes his head disapprovingly. GRIERSON
text: moves BERNIE to meet DAVID. They
dialog: 'Shake hands.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: David Leary. I'd like to echo my colleagues welcome to you and
dialog: thank you for your patronage ...
text: BERNIE rudely cuts him off.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Okay, that'll do. The Governor's here in half an hour. We have
dialog: to be totally ready then. No excuses. Period!
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Thank you Bernie. Well done. Now, If you'll excuse - I have a
dialog: little smartening up to do myself.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. BERNIE'S OFFICE - DAY
text: BEAN at the computer. He's actually quite enjoying himself now. In fact,
dialog: he's rather hogging the thing. This is, after all, an animated catalogue -
dialog: his area.
dialog: 83
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: I'm just gonna go see if Annie needs me for anything. Truth is,
dialog: she smells kinda nice. okay? (grins).
text: BEAN smiles and gives KEVIN a thumbs-up. KEVIN returns the gesture and
dialog: exits..
text: Back to the computer, BEAN clicks on an icon which takes him to the ground
text: floor gallery. He clicks through various paintings and stops at the painting
text: of the woman, in the castle, wearing the chastity belt. BEAN clicks and
text: enlarges the painting to fill the screen.
text: He happily hums the catchy tune from 'GOBLINS 2' and homes in on the tiny
text: padlock on the chastity belt. Padlocks interest him. He clicks on the
text: keyhole rapidly (as we have seen him do with the frog in GOBLINS 2).
speaker_heading: MR. BEAN
dialog: Click! click! click! click! click!
text: .Suddenly, to BEAN's surprise, the padlock starts to flash red...then the
text: whole screen starts to flash ... before going dramatically back to black ...
text: Now flashing in the .centre of the monitor is an icon of a tiny key. Beneath
text: it, a row of six dashes appears (e.g - - - - - - - ). A cursor is flashing
text: over the first dash.
text: BEAN is totally absorbed. He loves these kinds of puzzles. With one finger,
text: he slowly types out letters on the keyboard (he has to search for some of
text: them). As he does so, they appear over each dash in turn:
scene_heading: G-O-B-L-I-N
text: A message pops up: "ACCESS DENIED" BEAN tries something 0 else.
scene_heading: G-N-O-M-E-S
text: The message again: `ACCESS DENIED'. The room door suddenly opens! Making
text: BEAN jump! It's BERNIE. He cannot see the computer screen from the doorway.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: How goes it, Bean? Ready for the Governor?
text: BEAN smiles and nods nervously. He knows he's probably up to something he
dialog: shouldn't be.
dialog: 84
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: We need you downstairs in ten minutes and not a second more.
dialog: Period. Oh, And put this on.
text: BERNIE throws BEAN a name badge with 'Dr. Bean' on it. BEAN nods. BERNIE
text: exits. BEAN goes back to the code. He types in the first thing that comes
dialog: into his head:
speaker_heading: B-E-R-N-I-E
text: That damned message again: `ACCESS DENIED'. Then, as though something is
text: dawning on him, he punches in:
speaker_heading: P-E-R-I-0-D
text: Up comes a message: "CODE ACCEPTED". Close on BEAN's face as light from the
text: computer plays on it- He reads it carefully and with interest. We cant quite
text: read his expression - but what he sees is a surprise and a puzzle. Long
text: meaningful pause as his eyes scan the screen.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. THE WHISTLER ROOM - DAY
text: BERNIE enters - DAVID is looking at Whistler's Mother, still puzzled.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: David? Lift off!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. RECEPTION AREA - DAY
text: The staff and various dignitaries are lined, looking out through the glass in
text: anticipation. Through the glass we see a couple of Police Motorcycle Escorts
text: pull up outside followed by a beautiful, old, classic Rolls Royce.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY - DAY
text: The red carpet unrolls all the way to the Rolls, rear door. Close on the
text: bottom of the driver's door. It opens and out step a pair of legs, wearing
text: army boots and khaki trousers.
dialog: 85
text: The legs step sideways onto the carpet and approach us. Camera pans up to
text: show us that GOVERNOR REYNOLDS is dressed in his Veteran's uniform - chest of
text: medals and forage cap. He is a grand figure. In fact - he's exactly the same
text: grand figure Mr BEAN caused epic problems To on the plane over. He gives his
text: prized possession, the car, a little token polish with his sleeve before
text: heading on.
text: BRUTUS and his SIDE-KICK COP fall into step behind him. They are the Police
dialog: presence today.
text: GRIERSON and BERNIE greet REYNOLDS at the entrance.
text: GRIERSON is wearing a striking brand new light blue silk suit. BERNIE is
dialog: frowning - not happy about that uniform.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: what a pleasure, Governor. Welcome.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Hi, Grierson, forgive the war paint. Going on To my regiment/s
dialog: reunion after.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Not at all, Governor. Very striking.
text: REYNOLDS takes in GRIERSON's suit.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Interesting suit.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: (Beaming)
dialog: Why thank you sir.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: off the peg?
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: (crestfallen )
dialog: Yes it is ... may I introduce you To Bern ...
text: He gestures to BERNIE but REYNOLDS cuts in and hands BERNIE a set of car keys.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: (To Bernie)
dialog: Go park the old jalopy, will ya, son.
text: BERNIE's smile melts away. As they enter the gallery, BERNIE hopefully offers
text: the car keys to BRUTUS - who rewards him with a "don't be stupid" smile and
text: follows the Governor.
dialog: 86
text: BEAN (wearing "Dr Bean" name badge) comes into the corridor by the front door,
text: thus just missing REYNOLDS. BERNIE sees him and jumps on the chance to
dialog: delegate.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Bean - go park the Governor's car, will you.
text: BEAN assents happily. BRUTUS spies BEAN over his shoulder and frowns - its
text: that mad English guy again. BEAN gets to the door and sees the Governor's
dialog: car. Yummy!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. RECEPTION AREA - DAY
text: GRIERSON leads REYNOLDS to the reception counter, as BERNIE sneaks up to take
text: his position again. ELMER is in the background trying to look professional,
text: deferring to BRUTUS.
text: ANNIE steps out from behind the counter, curtsies and ,shakes REYNOLDS' hand.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Good day, Governor. I'm Annie. You know, you're a lot taller
dialog: than you were half an hour ago.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Well, that's great to hear at my age, Annie. Thank you very much.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Governor Reynolds, does your wife, like, have to curtsy? Or does
dialog: she 0 have a decent job?
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Er ... Mrs. Reynolds is doing just fine. Just fine.
text: He spots KEVIN and winks at him. KEVIN smiles back.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. DAY.
text: BEAN has let himself into the car. It's one of the happiest moments of his
text: life, as he inspects the gleaming panel and sits back in the gorgeous leather
dialog: seat.
dialog: 87
text: He starts the car up - and heads up into the circular car park. He sweeps
text: dangerously round a few turns - but just manages to keep the car in tact.
text: Finally he reaches the top floor where there is one quite small space left.
text: BEAN is a good driver in a car that is, unfortunately, one foot wider than the
dialog: one he's used to.
text: He takes out the comb he always used to measure space with his Mini, and
text: measures the space. Yes. Seems large enough. He moves the car in. It isn't
dialog: large enough.
text: With a hideous scraping of metal against metal, the Rolls Royce squeezes in
text: between the two cars, losing its wing mirror and door handle in the process.
text: BEAN looks a tadge concerned.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY - DAY.
text: REYNOLDS has moved on to ELMER who salutes crisply. REYNOLDS returns the
text: salute with pride.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Nice set of medals there Elmer. Which beach they drop you on?
dialog: Utah? Omaha?
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: Couldn't tell you sir. I was so drugged up with the killing I
dialog: didn't know where I was.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Well, congratulations soldier.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY.
text: BEAN sitting in the wedged car. He tries the door - but it won't open a
text: centimetre. He's totally stuck. He looks up at a small window in the roof.
text: If only he could get that open. He pushes various buttons, which set of
text: windscreen wipers, squirters, radios. He pushes the cigarette lighter.
text: Finally, he pulls a lever - and the bonnet pops up an inch.
text: At which moment we see the lighter shoot out, and on to the seat. BEAN is
text: still looking round below the dashboard, when he notices a little fire in the
text: seat beside him. Not good news.
dialog: 88
text: BEAN panics a bit, turns and half climbs over into the back seat, when he
text: spies a drinks cabinet. He has a very good idea - he finds a cut crystal
text: decanter of brown liquid, opens it and uses it to douse the fire. Not a
text: wise move with brandy. Before the cut, we see the WHOOOSH! of a major fire
text: in the front seat of the car.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. DAY.
text: GRIERSON leads REYNOLDS towards the main gallery. He points up to the video
text: screen they are passing, which shows the two of them walking along - as does
text: every screen in the gallery. REYNOLDS is impressed. He glances at DAVID in
dialog: passing.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Nice tie, fella.
text: DAVID grins to himself.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PARKING LOT - DAY.
text: The front of the car isn't what it was. There has been a big fire. It's out
text: now - three decanters lie empty. BEAN is not happy. Finally, he decides to
text: go for brute strength. He turns the car on again, puts it into reverse, and
text: puts his foot down on the accelerator.
text: We see the car from above. Full throttle. Totally still. Totally still.
text: And then WHOOOOSH WHAM!!! It reverses at 100 mph straight backwards, smashing
text: violently into and destroying the back of the car behind _ as it happens,
text: Bernie's car.
speaker_heading: CUT TO
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. GROUND FLOOR - DAY
text: REYNOLDS stops to admire a small painting - a twelfth century 'Crucifixion of
dialog: Christ'.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Ah, one of my favourites. It expresses a universal agony that the
dialog: established Church so rarely acknowledges, don't you think?
dialog: 89
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Jesus ... no one's got feet like for crying out loud. Have you
dialog: got feet like that? Dammed if I have. Let's move it, shall we?
text: BERNIE spots a slightly concerned DAVID.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Everything okay, David?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes. Ahm. I was just wondering where my English house guest had
dialog: got to.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
text: He's just parking the Governor's car.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Great - keep him out of trouble.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PARKING LOT - DAY.
text: BEAN is inspecting the car. He's not too happy with it. '.He tries to get
text: the bonnet down, but it insists on staying up. He shrugs his shoulders and
text: gets in to drive off again, having to wind down the window and drive by
text: leaning his head out. This means that as he heads for the exit, he fails to
text: see the system to stop people leaving without paying, a foot high barrier that
text: appears out of the ground. When he hits it, the car stops dead.
text: BEAN gets out, leaving the car idling and goes to the booth where normally the
text: attendant would be - but everyone is in the gallery at the moment. Inside he
text: pushes a couple of buttons, and, hurrah, gets the one that drops the barrier.
text: Less hurrah, he has forgotten to put on the hand brake.
text: As he moves back towards the car, it glides slowly down the ramp on the
text: outside of the building, then accelerates, and finally, on a particularly
text: sharp turn, smashes through the wall, and flies off the building. We hear a
text: crash - but do not see where it lands.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. GROUND FLOOR - DAY
text: GOVERNOR REYNOLDS turns away from another picture.
dialog: 90
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Can we go and see Mrs. Whistler now? My eyes are making my feet
dialog: sore, as my wife would say.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Sure, Governor. Please. This way.
text: The party follows DAVID as he walks through the gallery, towards the double
text: doors, to take the lift to the Whistler Room. An excited atmosphere.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WHISTLER ROOM. DAY.
text: Everyone enters.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen - most of you have seen Whistler's Mother
dialog: before, can I ask you just to step back. Thank you.
dialog: It's part of his plan of caution - he knows there's something wrong - and
text: wants as few people as possible to .see the painting close up. The crowd
text: moves back.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I'd like the Governor to have, as it were, a private audience with
dialog: his new friend.
text: REYNOLDS is flattered. Silence. DAVID inserts the plastic card key - opens
text: the doors - and sure enough there in all its glory is Whistler's Mother'.
text: Respectful silence.
text: REYNOLDS is delighted. He stands back to inspect her.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Well, hello Ma'am! Yes - she certainly looks a million dollars to
dialog: me - or should I say ten million dollars!
text: Everyone applauds.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Bravo - what do you say to a final glass of, though I say it
dialog: myself, rather 'expensive' champagne. (grins smugly)
dialog: 91
text: People start to file out. REYNOLDS, GRIERSON, BERNIE and DAVID stay behind.
text: DAVID spots BEAN arriving. He hands the car keys back to BERNIE with a
text: slightly dazed smile. DAVID eagerly takes his arm and brings him over.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Governor, I don't believe you've met Dr Bean, our expert from
dialog: England.
text: They turn to each other - recognition from BEAN "it's the man from the plane".
text: He does a very quick hand-shake and tries to make a getaway before REYNOLDS
dialog: recognises him...
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ah, hello, sorry, I ... Ahm... sorry ...
text: BEAN turns. In fatal slow motion he trips over the cord that stops anyone
text: getting too close to the great painting. He spins and falls in the direction
dialog: of the painting.
text: CUT TO: the looks of horror on all the faces.
text: CUT TO: BEAN, reaching out to keep himself standing. We think he's going to
text: tear the painting. He doesn't. He simply catches hold of the bottom of the
text: ornate frame. It ,,snaps off.
text: CUT TO: a look of relief for an instant on all faces.
text: CUT TO: the truth - as the frame breaks off, there is the little white strip,
text: saying, THE GRIERSON GALLERY, HOME OF WHISTLER'S MOTHER"-
text: CUT TO: a look of horror on all faces.
text: CUT TO: ELMER looking like someone has just murdered his own mother.
text: CUT TO: BRUTUS and SIDE-KICK glowering at BEAN.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GALLERY CORRIDOR. DAY.
text: Governor REYNOLDS storming through the Gallery, with -BERNIE and GRIERSON
text: scampering after him.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: You were going to sell the State of California a poster - for ten
dialog: million dollars! Who the hell do you think you are, Shorty!?
dialog: 92
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Look, Governor - just wait - it's may not be as bad as it looks
dialog: ....
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. WHISTLER ROOM - DAY.
text: DAVID and BEAN stand alone in silence, in front of the debris. BEAN is
text: absolutely destitute. DAVID stares at him. BEAN just lifts his hands.
text: Totally sad. What will, what can DAVID say to him? Finally, DAVID just puts
text: his hands on his shoulder.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Nice try, kiddo.
text: BEAN cant quite believe he's forgiven. At which moment, there is a knock on
text: the door. ANNIE enters, holding KEVIN's hand.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: David. There's a call for you. It's your wife.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Great. Classic timing. Why don't you ask her just to leave a
dialog: date for the divorce? I'll check my diary later.
text: Then he notices the worried expressions on ANNIE and KEVIN's faces.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: She's calling from the hospital ...
text: BEAN and DAVID both take this in. DAVID turns and runs towards the reception
text: area. ANNIE calls after him.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: She's on line three!
text: KEVIN grabs BEAN's hand and they both run after DAVID. ANNIE watches BEAN go
text: and sighs.
speaker_heading: ANNIE
dialog: Such... great buns.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 93
scene_heading: INT. GALLERY ENTRANCE HALL. DAY.
text: The party is in disarray. In the background, DAVID is on the phone at the
text: reception counter with KEVIN and BEAN. BRUTUS hovers, he suspects BEAN -
dialog: wants to question him.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: I've known soldiers who've had their heads blown off who were more
dialog: intelligent than you two. Not only have you failed to protect
dialog: your most valuable possession from theft - but you didn't even
dialog: know it'd been stolen! I'd sooner buy heroin from the guy who
dialog: sells drugs outside my grandson's school than anything from you
dialog: guys.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: I am sorry you feel that way.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: And I'm sorry you look that way, short-ass. That suit stinks and
dialog: you obviously dye your hair.
text: GRIERSON is seriously shocked and offended.
dialog: Now, bring my car round the front please - I've had enough of this
dialog: crap!.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Certainly, sir.
text: He rushes off. Meanwhile, DAVID slams down the phone and he, BEAN and KEVIN
text: rush out of the building. ELMER, BRUTUS and SIDE-KICK give chase.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GALLERY PARKING LOT. DAY.
text: DAVID's car screeches out onto the street and tears away.
text: BRUTUS and SIDE-KICK arrive, flustered, at their car. SIDE-KICK is
text: frantically searching for its keys.
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: Come on man! Move it!
text: A car passes by them slowly. ELMER is driving. He shouts from his window.
dialog: 94
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: Hey, Cop, wanna ride? Jeese, where do they get you guys?
text: The cops jump in his car while it is still moving.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY - DAY
text: REYNOLDS at the entrance. BERNIE walks up sheepishly, holding up car keys.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: There is one other tiny problem, sir.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET. DAY.
text: DAVID's car speeds by. ELMER's car is not far behind it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DAVID'S CAR - DAY
text: DAVID is driving fast.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Is Jenny gonna be okay?
speaker_heading: DAVID
text: She was wearing a helmet. It could have been worse.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: But is she gonna be okay?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: (snapping)
dialog: How the hell should I know?
text: KEVIN is hurt.
dialog: I'm sorry. What can I say - she's unconscious. And I mean -
dialog: every night when we sleep, we're all unconscious, aren't we?
dialog: She'll pull out of it. God though - why the hell do kids have to
dialog: ride bikes?
text: DAVID slams on the brakes. He nearly went through a red light.
dialog: 95
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Damn! She's a good kid. Sometimes good people get a break once
dialog: in a while. (manages a smile)
text: A chauffeur driven, open top limo, pulls up next to DAVID's car. BEAN looks
text: out of his window to see the BAG LADY, from the mall robbery, sitting in the
text: back. She is still wearing her filthy clothes. She raises a glass of
text: champagne to BEAN and smiles.
text: BEAN waves back uncertainly. He's sure he's seen her before - a vague memory.
text: CUT TO: ELMER's CAR is in the traffic queue about ten cars back. BRUTUS and
text: SIDE-KICK get out and start running down the line towards DAVID's car.
text: The lights are green. DAVID puts his foot down and the car screeches away
text: just as BRUTUS and SIDE-KICK are within inches it.
text: CUT TO: BRUTUS and SIDE-KICK turn on their heels and head back to ELMER's car.
dialog: They are very unfit.
text: They are just about to jump in the car when gun shots are heard from a near-by
text: gas station- BRUTUS turns and sees a .robbery in progress. A man with a gun
text: is about to run away. BRUTUS is torn, not knowing which quarry to pursue.
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: Shiiiit!
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: It's okay! I'll tail 'em!
speaker_heading: BRUTUS
dialog: You got it.
text: BRUTUS and SIDE-KICK draw their guns and run towards the gas station. In a
text: moment of confusion - a shot rings out. We think in the corner of our eye
text: that we see BRUTUS fall to the ground, as ELMER screeches away after DAVID's
dialog: car.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. RECEPTION - DAY
text: Much hustle and bustle. DAVID is getting directions from a nurse at the desk.
text: He beckons to KEVIN and BEAN and strides, purposely towards a corridor. They
text: hurry to catch him up, and Bean treat on the back of his shoe. DAVID turns
text: and shouts at him.
dialog: 96
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Just stay away from me! D'you hear?
text: He takes KEVIN's hand and storms away round a corner. BEAN is taken aback not
text: knowing what to do or where to go. He is really feeling sorrow now. He's
text: shaken. All part of his slow coming to feel things properly.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. CORRIDOR - DAY
text: DAVID and KEVIN turns a corner - and stop, frozen. There, sitting alone, on a
text: bench, outside JENNIFER's room, is ALISON. She gets to her feet. Their eyes
dialog: meet.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY -DAY
text: A crowd outside the gallery, look off camera. The camera follows BERNIE's
text: gaze and takes in the modern car sculpture. Where there were two cars face
dialog: down in the earth, there are now three, the new addition being Governor's
text: pride and Joy. The three cars form a tall pyramid.
text: Close on REYNOLDS' face. GRIERSON approaches.
speaker_heading: REYNOLDS
dialog: Don't even think of saying one word to me, or I'11 find a way
dialog: of fitting all three of those cars right up your ass.
text: GRIERSON nods - he's got the message.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. CORRIDOR. DAY
text: ALISON and DAVID are standing where they were before, three paces apart.
text: ALISON is upset, tired and drawn.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: They're not calling it a coma. The doctor says she's ... just
dialog: kind of taking time out. (to Kevin) Hi, tough guy. (to David) It's
text: a busy night. The doctor will be back in a while.
text: A doctor passes
dialog: 97
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Excuse me.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR 1
dialog: I'll be back in a minute.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Okay, great.
text: ALISON looks at him. We don't quite read the expression but somewhere under
dialog: there we know she's thinking "yup, he's still ineffective."
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: At least you didn't bring Mr Bean with you.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Ah, well ....
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. CORRIDOR - DAY
text: BEAN is looking for his friends. A doctor sweeps by him. A nurse behind.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Doctor Jacobson?
speaker_heading: DOCTOR JACOBSON
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: We need you urgently in C Theatre.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR JACOBSON
dialog: Damn. I was just going to Number 4 ....
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: It is urgent, sir.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR JACOBSON
dialog: Okay.....
text: The doctor rushes away and drops his stethoscope as he .goes. BEAN sees it,
text: picks it up and follows him he's trying to be useful.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 98
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. RECEPTION - DAY
text: ELMER is at the busy reception desk and has been talking with a nurse.
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: No, no, I didn't realise the situation. I won't disturb them now.
text: ELMER is obviously moved to find out about JENNIFER. He moves towards the
text: exit ... He is surprised to see BUCK, the night-shift guard, dressed in
text: civvies, sitting with outpatients.
speaker_heading: ELMER
dialog: Buck?
text: BUCK looks up, painfully, goes to say something, then dashes into a men's room
text: close-by. ELMER shakes his head and leaves.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. CORRIDOR - DAY.
text: BEAN still following DR JACOBSON, who goes through more swing doors and then
text: suddenly disappears. BEAN sees a big "4" above a door and goes in, holding
text: the Stethoscope. A nurse accosts him instantly. She reads his name badge.
speaker_heading: NURSE 2
dialog: Doctor ... Bean?
text: BEAN is fed up trying to correct people with this misconception.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Actually ... (huge sigh) ... Yes, yes, yes...
speaker_heading: NURSE 2
dialog: Just in time, sir. Allow me.
text: She immediately slips the white coat onto BEAN, and the gloves, and the mask.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. CORRIDOR - DAY
text: ALISON, DAVID and KEVIN are sitting on the bench opposite JENNIFER's room.
text: KEVIN picks up JENNIFER's SUPER NINTENDO console from the bench. DAVID
text: notices this. ALISON answers his look.
dialog: 99
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: When the Police told me what had happened I ... it's stupid I know
dialog: ... but I remembered all that stuff people do to get through to
dialog: coma victims ...
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Like playing them recordings of their dish washers and coffee
dialog: grinders?
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: That right. So I went home and picked it up.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Good thinking. (pause) You still call it 'home'.
text: ALISON looks at him seriously.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATING THEATRE. NIGHT.
text: Inside the operating theatre, a body is waiting in position. There are 3
text: attending nurses and an assistant doctor. They all look up to BEAN as he
text: enters, fully kitted up.
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: Good evening Doctor.. What we have here is a bullet wound in the
text: lower thorax it seems to have ruptured the lung, and there's
text: severe inner bleeding along the abdomen.
speaker_heading: NURSE 2
text: He's coming round.
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: Give him a T 70, straight away.
text: The victim starts to move - he looks up - we see his face for the first time.
text: It is the police officer, BRUTUS. He is in great pain. As the sedative shot
text: goes in, BEAN takes off his mask, and smiles, with a little wave. A look of
text: total panic goes over BRUTU'S eyes, as he loses consciousness.
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: Shall I do the cut, sir?
text: BEAN nods - he's not going to argue with anyone. The assistant cuts. BEAN is
text: horrified, almost faints, then snatches the knife. He can't believe this
text: maniac has just cut through another personas flesh.
dialog: 100
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: I'm sorry. it's only MY first week.
text: BEAN hands the knife to the NURSE testily.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: I'm afraid we'll now have to wait for the X-rays, Doctor, or we'll
dialog: never find the bullet. Come on everyone sort out the support
dialog: systems.
text: EVERYONE turns to get on with their particular jobs. BEAN is left with the
text: body. A pause. He gets a little bored. Takes a sweet packet out of his
text: pocket. Only one sweet left. he takes it out lovingly, and then does what he
text: always does - throws it up into the air, to catch it in his mouth.
text: Unfortunately, he forgets that he is wearing a mask. It hits the middle of
text: the mask and bounces into the cut in the body.
text: BEAN looks down annoyed. Checks round him - everyone's 'still busy. So he
text: puts his hand in the body, really rummages around, finds the sweet, takes it
text: out, and then realises he's in fact got the bullet between his fingers.
text: ..Guiltily, he slips it back into the body, rummages a bit more, finds the
text: sweet, wipes it, &amp; pops it in his mouth. At which second the X-ray arrives.
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: Here we go, doctor. ( STUDYING THE X-RAY ) the bullet is here -
dialog: so we'll probably have to extend the cut to here. Think we all
dialog: better be prepared for a long one here. This is tricky.
text: BEAN tuts scornfully - 'you're wrong 1, reaches in again, feels around for a
text: second, and triumphantly produces the bullet between his fingers.
text: They all applaud.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. CORRIDOR - DAY.
text: BEAN exits from the theatre - still in gown and mask, followed by the
text: assistant. The police SIDE-KICK is waiting.
speaker_heading: SIDE-KICK
dialog: Any news on the chief?.
dialog: 101
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: There certainly is. Dr Bean here just saved his life.
text: SIDE-KICK's eyes water. He's choked. BEAN shakes his hand nervously, and
text: heads on fast before he's found out. He turns the corner and suddenly sees
text: DAVID and ALISON, still seated. ALISON sees him.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: 0 my god.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Sorry, honey - he just happened to tag along.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Nothing ever really changes, does it, David?
text: She turns her head away: the bond of the moments before is gone. BEAN looks
text: very contrite. At that moment, another doctor walks by.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Excuse me.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR 2
dialog: Yes, your doctor will be with you in a minute. We have a lot to
dialog: deal with here, sir.
text: ALISON looks round, and shakes her head. BEAN kicks DAVID in the shins.
text: DAVID looks round, puzzled. There is a poster of the human skeleton. BEAN
text: points to the spine. DAVID looks but cannot fathom a relevant meaning from
dialog: it.
text: Another doctor comes along - the same one who they spoke to first. He's
text: young, confident slightly arrogant.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Excuse me, doctor.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Really Ma'am, we'll get to you in due course.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Okay.
text: DAVID looks at the poster opposite again. Spine, ribcage, skull. Looks back
text: at Bean gesturing to it. This time the penny drops! Spine spineless!
dialog: 102
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Say that again, son.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: I beg your pardon?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I said say that again, son - because the next time you do, I'll
dialog: make sure you're in there with my daughter, but in a slightly less
text: healthy state and she's in a coma with a broken arm right now.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: I'm er ... sorry if you've been waiting a long time.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: We have. In fact, we've been sitting here since the start of the
dialog: Millennium and I'd really like some action from you before the end
dialog: of the world.
text: A hint of a smile arrives on ALISON's lips. She's heard that somewhere before.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: So, why not haul your ... (checks) nice little ass into this room
dialog: and explain to me and my wife why our precious daughter is going
dialog: to be absolutely fine because of all the fantastic intelligence
dialog: and attention you are going to give her case.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Okay, sir. Certainly. Good.
text: DAVID turns to ALISON - she does a little tilt of her
text: Head `WOW'. And he turns to BEAN, who points to
dialog: himself, and nods .... n Come on!
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes, and Bean, for God's sake, keep out of the goddamn way, will
dialog: you?
text: BEAN nods enthusiastically and backs off.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Smiling Well, well.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 103
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. JENNIFER'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: Close on an E.C.G. monitor, green lines on black screen. DAVID and ALISON sit
text: by JENNIFER's bed. JENNIFER is unconscious. She has her arm in a cast and a
text: small Band-Aid on her head. otherwise she seems undamaged.
text: KEVIN is sitting on the end of the bed playing the SUPER NINTENDO game (the
text: Gothic Vampire thing, with bats and he-men, we saw on JENNIFER'S TV earlier).
text: It is plugged into a T.V. which sits on a trolley. It's quite a noisy game.
text: KEVIN is immersed in it.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Let's get a coffee.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes. Great. Kevin, I'11 send Bean in to keep you company.
text: ALISON exits. David follows. BEAN enters. He sees JENNIFER for the first
text: time. Sympathy shows in his eyes.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Help me with this. It's a scientific experiment. We're gonna
text: wake up Sleeping Beauty here with the tortured screams of Vampire
dialog: bats.
text: BEAN is determined to help. He sits down with KEVIN. The game continues.
text: The he-man jumps up and down, lashing out at bats with his sword. Lots of
text: noise, but JENNIFER sleeps on.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: By a drinks machine. ALISON finishes drinking from a plastic cup.
speaker_heading: ALISON
text: Disgusting.
text: She looks up at DAVID, who's looking at her. Slowly she gets close and puts
text: her arms around him. She's a bit tearful.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Everything's gonna be fine.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: (pause)
dialog: About Charles...
dialog: 104
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: shhh...
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: It was nothing. We're not ... He just makes me laugh. When was
dialog: the last time we laughed? Any of us?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I know... I know. I've been an arsehole of spectacular
dialog: proportions. Olympic standard.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Dad...
text: They look down to see KEVIN has arrived.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: These guys just hijacked the T.V. Me and Bean were trying to ...
text: A hospital PORTER passes, pushing the T.V. on a trolley.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL PORTER
dialog: Sorry, folks. We're short on these and there's another kid down
dialog: the hall that could use ...
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Wait a minute .... (about to get tough again)
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Please. It's okay. Really. (to David) Wow - who put the fire
dialog: in you, my' man?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. JENNIFER'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: JENNIFER is still asleep. BEAN is sitting on the end of her bed. He looks at
text: the SUPER NINTENDO console thinking, "How can I get this working again? How
text: can I help?" The only sound in the room is the beeping from the E.C.G.
text: machine, monitoring Jennifer's heart. BEAN has an idea.
text: He yanks off the jack plug at the end of the Super Nintendo lead. Producing
text: his small screwdriver, he starts to unscrew the console casing.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 105
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: DAVID, ALISON and KEVIN walk back towards the room.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Maybe I ought to think about getting another job.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Good idea - with a boss who's a really ugly son-of-a-bitch.
text: She and DAVID manage to share a smile. They're going to get through this.
text: Suddenly, we hear noise from the vampire game, coming from JENNIFER's room.
text: KEVIN registers this and is puzzled. Then ALISON and DAVID notice it.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I thought you said....
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL. JENNIFER'S ROOM - DAY
text: The LEARYS appear in the open doorway. Their expressions turn from curiosity
dialog: to horror.
text: BEAN has plugged the SUPER NINTENDO games system into the back of JENNIFER's
text: E.C.G. monitor. A couple of bats are flapping about the screen but the most
text: worrying thing here (shown in close-up) is the sight of a he-man type, jumping
text: up and down, lashing out, with his sword, at the passing pulse light, showing
text: Jennifer's faint vital signs ...
text: ALISON gasps. DAVID slowly moves into the room.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Now, Bean ... just put down that thing ... nice and slow ... you
dialog: hear me? Come on now...
text: But BEAN is determined to keep going - it's his way of reviving Jennifer.
text: DAVID approaches the opposite side of the bed and gets ready to pounce ... CUT
text: TO: a close-up of the monitor. The he-man chases the pulse light ...
text: DAVID dives across the bed just as he man swipes the pulse light with his
text: sword. DAVID has landed on top of JENNIFER. The pulse light explodes and the
text: monitor screen whites-out. JENNIFER wakes up with a start.
dialog: 106
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Dad! Get off!? What's happening here?! Mom?
text: ALISON covers her mouth, tearful, but she can't hold it back. She laughs.
text: DAVID and KEVIN stare at JENNIFER. They can't help but join in the laughter.
text: JENNIFER has no idea what's going on. BEAN is happy that everyone is happy.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: I don't care what anyone says. Mr. Bean brought my sister back
dialog: from the dead. He did it under laboratory conditions. My eyes do
dialog: not lie!
text: ALISON grins at him. Then at BEAN.
scene_heading: MIX THROUGH TO:
scene_heading: INT. LEARY HOUSE. KITCHEN. NIGHT.
text: ALISON is fixing some coffee. DAVID enters.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Here, let me do that.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: No, I'm fine.
text: He just stands there.
dialog: okay - you grind the beans, and
text: He moves towards her - his arms slip round her waist.
dialog: ... put them in the .... ( but she can't concentrate I don't
dialog: believe this. I'm being seduced by my own husband.
text: Pause. They are just about to kiss when BEAN enters.
text: He's a bit impatient.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Ahm - excuse me ... ( POINTING TO HIS WATCH ) You know..
text: They jump apart. The moment is gone.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: Oh yes. Sorry. Though I think these are ready.
dialog: 107
text: ALISON takes out two single socks which have been neatly wrapped around a
text: couple of drinks mats and put in the toaster slots.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: There. Is that how you like them?
text: BEAN beams at her. He's impressed - and feels he's accepted. He leaves.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: He's not too bad. I can live with him.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I'm afraid you don't know the half of it. Sit down. I have a tale
dialog: to tell. And not a happy one.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY'S KITCHEN. NIGHT
text: Looking in front outside, we see Alison sit down. We see, ,but do not hear
text: David start to talk. Within seconds her hands go up to her face in horror.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON'S OFFICE. DAY.
text: With heavy hearts everyone is gathered to hear their fate. Pan across the
text: familiar faces. DAVID. BERNIE. ELMER. ANNIE. BEAN, looking nervous and
text: shifty. Dead silence as GRIERSON stands, very solemnly.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Colleagues - what can I say? Incidents such as occurred yesterday
dialog: teach a man important lessons. On reflection, I realise it would
dialog: have been a sin to sell Whistler's Mother to such an impertinent
dialog: philistine as Governor Reynolds. And therefore, I blame myself
dialog: for having ever let things get to such a pass that we felt we had
dialog: realise our the staff - twelve got today, I've Schimmel as to sell
dialog: her. I suddenly problem here hasn't been it's been the leadership
dialog: flabby, lazy- And so decided to appoint Bernie my new Vice-
dialog: President.
text: CUT TO BERNIE, looking smug next to DAVID, who is pretty shocked by this.
dialog: 108
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: He's a man with a plan who will haul us into profitability and
dialog: the 21st century.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Thank you, sir. Although, I'm afraid I don't quite see how we
dialog: can ...
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Good point Bernie - precisely the kind of perceptive
dialog: interjection I'd expect from my new V.P. How can we, you ask,
dialog: survive without Whistler's Mother - our single greatest asset?
dialog: Well, the truth is - we can't. So what am I saying? Will we
dialog: find her again? Never - this robber was clearly the work of a
dialog: criminal of great genius.
text: BEAN looks pleased - but then realises it's not a suitable emotion ~ so nods
dialog: sagely.
dialog: Insurance? Not a chance. Those bastards never pay. So,
dialog: surely we're bankrupt? Surely your jobs are forfeit? Surely
dialog: you're back on the unemployment lines, scraping a living as
dialog: waiters and boys? Yes. Yes indeed. Except for one little
dialog: thing. one little thing done by one little man. Dare I say,
dialog: one helluva little man. Watch this.
text: Everyone is totally at a loss. GRIERSON stands and moves to the framed poster
text: of Whistler's Mother on the wall. He then produces a plastic key card and
text: inserts it in a slot on the side of the frame. A buzz and a click! An
text: electric motor starts to whirrrr ...
text: The glass, along with the title strip at the bottom of the poster, slides
text: gently down inside the picture frame to reveal that the poster is in fact the
text: original oil of Whistler's Mother.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen. The REAL Whistler's Mother!
text: There are gasps from the room. BEAN is open mouthed.
text: GRIERSON beams as many applaud and BEAN now joins in hyperactively. He's
dialog: saved!
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: The best security in the world is no match for a master
dialog: criminal. But no master criminal is a match for me. Thank
dialog: you all. Now if you would please return to your posts, my new
dialog: Vice President, Bernard Shimmel would like you all to see the
dialog: computer program we had prepared for yesterday until we were
text: so rudely interrupted by events.
text: The room is emptying. DAVID and BEAN stand there, DAVID stunned. GRIERSON
text: heads over.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: David, David, David ...
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: I'm fired? Because I let a... copy of a painting the get stolen?
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Of course not. I'm sacking you for neglectful conduct,
dialog: relating to the heavy financial loss this gallery has incurred,
dialog: through your recent lack of professional judgement. A loss I
dialog: trust Bernie will be able to reverse.
dialog: David
dialog: But ....
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: I will of course invite you an excellent reference - or Bernie
dialog: will.
text: BERNIE looks across from the computer and smiles. BEAN has his eyes on DAVID.
text: He is mortified by what's
text: happening. GRIERSON notices but misinterprets his worried expression.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Of course, Dr. Bean, we'll arrange alternative accommodation
dialog: for you. I believe Bernie has a spare room with en suite
dialog: bathroom.
text: DAVID glares at BERNIE. BEAN is thinking 'No! I don't want to stay with
dialog: horrible BERNIE.'
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: How are you making out there?
dialog: 110
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: All fixed up, sir. Stick around, Davey boy. This is going to be
dialog: quite a show.
text: He presses an intercom. He's enjoying himself.
dialog: Hi everyone - this is your new Vice President, Bernie Shistler.
dialog: Would you please watch your video screens. You're in for a treat,
dialog: guys.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. VARIOUS ROOMS. DAY.
text: All the staff in all the rooms, gallery, canteen, corridors, look up at
text: various screens. Cut round rooms during this flashy demonstration.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
speaker_heading: (V/0)
dialog: Here you can see our new interactive gallery guide. Every picture
text: in the gallery will have its own story to tell.
text: A Van Gogh picture comes up on the giant video screens
text: ....and then keeps changing, as BERNIE keeps talking.
text: Just click , and here is a portrait of the painter - then his
text: family then other paintings by him - then other pictures relevant
dialog: to him in the gallery
text: Everyone is delighted and impressed.
dialog: And the beauty is, any idiot can use it. Dr Bean - would you like
dialog: a try?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON'S OFFICE - DAY.
text: BEAN swiftly obliges and sits at the computer.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Perhaps you'd like to bring up Whistler's Mother.
text: But BEAN has another plan. He begins to click boxes.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY. MAIN GALLERY - DAY.
text: The Millais painting we have seen before, with the padlock, comes up on the
text: video screen.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
speaker_heading: (V/0)
dialog: Ah, Our visiting professor has chosen the splendid Millais
dialog: painting - "His Mistress"
speaker_heading: CUT BACK:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON'S OFFICE. DAY.
text: BEAN busy on the computer.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
text: Just click on the corner.
text: BEAN again disobeys ... He clicks on the padlock repeatedly - humming the
text: familiar 'Goblins' tune. BERNIE is looking very tense.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Right let me take over now...
text: BEAN turns and snarls at him - almost a bark ...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE MAIN GALLERY - DAY
text: Everyone is glued to the screens.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: You've had long enough on it now. A joke's a joke. That's it.
dialog: Period!
text: On the computer screens, the screen has gone black, just as it did when Bean
text: was playing earlier, and the 6 dashes have appeared with the flashing cursor
text: over the first of them. All watch, intrigued by what they see.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON'S OFFICE DAY
text: The blood drains from BERNIE's face. Still humming happily, BEAN slowly types
dialog: in the letters:
speaker_heading: P-E-R-I-0-D
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: You can stop right there, Mr! Those are confidential ...
dialog: 112
text: Words and figures fill the screen. BEAN throws his hands up and sings a
dialog: verbal fanfare:
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Daaa! Daaa!
text: GRIERSON moves to DAVID's side and the two stare at the screen, the meaning of
text: its contents dawning on them. Close up of the screen as their eyes find the
text: words: `NEW ARTIST EXHIBIT' in the middle of columns of words, figures and
dialog: dollar signs.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON GALLERY. ALL ROOMS.
text: The same figures are being flashed all over on the huge screens. People
text: watching and listening in awe. ANNIE and ELMER stare at it angrily.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRIERSON'S OFFICE ~ DAY
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: Excuse me, If I may just ...
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: Shut up, Schimmel. Exactly how long have you been siphoning
dialog: gallery money into your own private accounts?
text: DAVID scrolls down the screen.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Look at all this - publicity expenditure ... catering ... all
text: completely fictional ... back as far as June 93 ...
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: I don't think you really understand what you're looking at ...
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Horse shit. You're dead, grease-ball. Period.
text: He pushes a button, that sends a picture of what's happening in his office
dialog: throughout the Gallery.
dialog: My friends, good news. Mr Schimmel is not only no longer Vice-
dialog: President. He actually no longer works here.
speaker_heading: BERNIE
dialog: But wait a minute - you can't let some moron from England turn
dialog: you against me. I deny any knowledge of this. He probably
dialog: typed in all this stuff himself. Don't you find it all a bit
text: suspicious that it's here at his fingertips. (pointing at Bean)
dialog: There's your criminal, gentlemen. There's the Limey that set me
dialog: up!
text: Pause. All eyes turn to BEAN. CUT TO people watching the big screens
dialog: everywhere.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Dr. Bean. Have you got anything to say to that?
text: BEAN looks long and hard at BERNIE.
speaker_heading: BEAN
dialog: Yes- (PAUSE) It's exceedingly rude to point.
text: And punches BERNIE sharply in the nose. Everyone in the gallery bursts into
dialog: applause.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE GRIERSON GALLERY - DAY.
text: Half an hour later. Police cars draw up. BERNIE is shoved in the back seat
scene_heading: of one. GRIERSON, BEAN &amp; DAVID watch.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: (to uniformed cop)
dialog: I don't know what your methods are these days, Officer, but I'd
dialog: also ask him a few questions about the destruction of the
dialog: Whistler copy.
text: BEAN nods his head firmly. The car pulls away. Then breaks and reverses.
text: The SIDE-KICK gets out.
speaker_heading: SIDE~KICK
dialog: Oh, yeah - I forgot.
text: SIDE-KICK opens the back of the car. He takes out a huge bunch of flowers.
dialog: The chief said I was to give you these.
text: BEAN is delighted. Then sniffs the flowers. What a nasty stink. Not his
dialog: sort of thing at all.
dialog: 114
text: SIDE-KICK drives AWAY. GRIERSON turns to DAVID.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: I owe you a very serious apology, young man. It wouldn't surprise
dialog: me if you wanted to leave us after this. I sincerely hope that
dialog: you do not.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: VERY ACCOMMODATING Well, no, sir, I'm sure ...
text: He looks sideways to Bean, who is frantically pointing to his spine. DAVID
text: gets the message, and changes his tune..
dialog: Let me think about that, Thomas. We'd have to talk quite a salary
dialog: hike.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Of course.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: And a car.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
dialog: Mmmmm...
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Maybe two cars.
speaker_heading: GRIERSON
text: A car sounds sensible.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: And I need Fridays off, to spend more time with my family.
dialog: Speaking of which - if you'll excuse me .... I've got a lot of
dialog: time to make up.
text: DAVID heads off. BEAN wants to follow, but needs to get rid of the stinky
text: flowers. He turns to ANNIE and gives them to her to be rid of them. She
text: beams with delight: after all, he DID love her.
text: BEAN heads off with DAVID to the parking lot. As they go, DAVID puts an arm
speaker_heading: round BEAN.
text: Who shoos him away instantly. No sloppiness for him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 115
scene_heading: EXT. THE LEARY HOUSE. HALL - DAY.
text: The LEARY family in a group. JENNIFER's arm in a sling.
speaker_heading: ALISON
dialog: well, it's been... unusual. But thank you.
text: She goes to kiss BEAN - but he just sticks out his hand, and shakes it firmly.
text: Then moves on to JENNIFER.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Good-bye Mr Bean. Sorry I screamed that first time.
text: He shakes her broken arm firmly ... and she screams again.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Come on hurry or we'll be late.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. LEARY HOUSE. DAY.
text: BEAN, KEVIN &amp; DAVID get into the car. It pulls away, as they drive off, BEAN
text: sticks his hand of the window - and waves a last farewell to ALISON and
text: JENNIFER. At last a sentimental moment - romantic music swelling - like Liza
text: Minelli at the end of "Cabaret".
text: Until the waving hand viciously cracks against the wooden front gate as the
text: car squeezes past.
scene_heading: MIX THROUGH TO:
scene_heading: INT. AMERICAN AIRPORT. DEPARTURE AREA - DAY
text: The three 30 year old women, dressed in curly red wigs from the musical,
text: 'Annie', hug and kiss their little BALD MAN and send him off through the
text: gates. They shriek and wave him good-bye. DAVID, KEVIN and BEAN are there.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: ... Oh, and Grierson phoned Lord Walton at the National. Said
dialog: good things about you. So expect a great reception back home,
dialog: huh?
text: BEAN delighted. Promotion is in his sights. He studies his watch. He's
dialog: being polite but held really like to get going.
dialog: 116
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: Good-bye Beanie. It's Bean .... surreal. And don't forget you're
dialog: welcome to come back anytime ...
text: DAVID delivers a sharp nudge to his ribs.
speaker_heading: KEVIN
dialog: ... in the distant future.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Bye, Bean. Thanks for everything. And take care, huh? I know
dialog: it's insane, but I'm going to miss you.
text: BEAN nods abruptly, picks up his case, checks his watch and goes. He doesn't
text: look back. Kevin and David turn and walk away. DAVID does stop to look back
text: over his shoulder at BEAN, heading off in the distance. But BEAN doesn't
text: turn, so DAVID walks on.
text: Then there is suddenly a tap on his shoulder. It's BEAN, ,as though he's
text: magically jumped there. He gives DAVID a big bear hug, a big grin, and then a
text: little wave - and heads away. In the distance, he treads on the back of ,some
dialog: one's shoe.
scene_heading: MIX THROUGH TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE NATIONAL GALLERY. LONDON - DAY
text: Shot from high up. BEAN's lime green mini approaches, coming around Trafalgar
text: Square, and drives up onto the pavement, in front of the gallery. It stops
text: and BEAN gets out. He looks up at the building, pleased to be back.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE NATIONAL GALLERY - DAY
text: BEAN pauses outside the revolving doors to clip his staff identity badge onto
text: his top pocket. He enters in high spirits.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE NATIONAL GALLERY - DAY
text: BEAN enters the reception hall. It is totally deserted.
text: He frowns, and heads on, puzzled..
dialog: 117
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL GALLERY. GALLERY 1 DAY
text: The place is totally empty except for a CLEANER sweeping up litter in the
text: middle of the room. There are faded rectangles on the walls where all the
text: paintings should be. Only one very solid looking statue remains. BEAN is
text: thoroughly perplexed
speaker_heading: CLEANER
dialog: They've moved, guy.
text: BEAN is utterly perplexed. He looks round the corner into another empty
text: gallery, and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE NATIONAL GALLERY - DAY
text: BEAN looks up at the building and gives a disgusted grunt ,before getting into
text: his car and drives off around Trafalgar Square. His brow is deeply furrowed.
dialog: What will he do now with his life?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE NATIONAL GALLERY ~ DAY
text: The empty gallery BEAN just inspected. Then, from out behind the one
text: remaining statue, emerges MISS HUTCHINSON. Then, from behind a pillar, LORD
speaker_heading: WALTON.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Is he gone?
speaker_heading: MISS HUTCHINSON
dialog: Yes, my lord.
speaker_heading: LORD WALTON
dialog: Tell the others.
speaker_heading: MISS HUTCHINSON
dialog: Very well, my lord.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PITCH DARK ROOM. DAY.
text: Pitch dark. A door opens and the light from the corridor falls on the 150
text: gallery employees squashed into this one tiny room. It's the gent's loo.
dialog: 118
text: MISS HUTCHINSON's head pops in.
speaker_heading: MISS HUTCHINSON
text: He's gone.
text: Massive cheer, bowlers in the air, massive music. Roll credits.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BEAN'S HOUSE DAY.
text: Behind the credits, we see close-ups of BEAN hammering away at large planks of
text: wood on some wooden structure.
text: He walks away from it - without us seeing what it is
text: and goes to his Mini, where TEDDY sits on a pile of books in the front seat,
text: wearing a seat belt. Bean gets into the car, which is laden with suitcases,
text: starts it up and drives ....
text: .... straight into the huge crate he has built. A rope tied to the back
text: bumper pulls the lid closed behind him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MOTORWAY. DAY.
text: The crate sits on the back of a speeding truck.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. AIRPORT. DAY.
text: The crate is now on the top of a forklift truck moving up the ramp on an
text: American airline cargo plane. Close up on a large sticker on the crate: it
scene_heading: reads: "DAVID LEARY, 23 WOODFORD AVENUE, CHESTERFIELD, CALIFORNIA. HANDLE
text: WITH CARE.
text: And cut to the plane flying through clear skies. Though, for the Lear's of
dialog: course there are no clear skies ahead.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
