dialog: 
text: BEAUTY AND THE BEAST
dialog: Written by
dialog: Stephen Chbosky &amp; Evan Spiliotopoulos
dialog: Based on the 1991 Animated Film
dialog: "Beauty and the Beast"
dialog: Screenplay by Linda Woolverton
dialog: August 10, 2016
scene_heading: 1 EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - NIGHT 1
text: A MAGNIFICENT CASTLE. Resplendent, bespeaking great wealth and
text: power. The grounds and stonework immaculate.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
text: Once upon a time in the hidden heart of
dialog: France, a handsome young Prince lived in
dialog: a beautiful castle...
text: RACK FOCUS to a single RED ROSE clinging to a rose bush on a
text: stormy spring night. A WEATHERED HAND plucks the rose.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: Although he had everything his heart
dialog: desired, the Prince was selfish and
dialog: unkind.
scene_heading: 2 INT. BALLROOM ENTRANCE - CASTLE - NIGHT 2
text: TIGHT ON THE PRINCE being groomed by his servants. (We do not
text: see their faces.) A FRENCH MAID paints an exotic animal mask
text: on the Prince's face with a feather brush. A TALL VALET drapes
text: the Prince with an elaborately bejeweled coat.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: He taxed the village to fill his
dialog: castle with the most beautiful
dialog: objects...
text: The MAID dusts his wig with powder -
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: Poof poof...
text: - while a MAJORDOMO holds a POCKET WATCH, indicating that they
dialog: are running late.
speaker_heading: MAJORDOMO
dialog: Master, it's time.
text: With a haughty wave, the Prince instructs his FOOTMAN to
dialog: bring more light.
speaker_heading: FOOTMAN
dialog: Oui, maître.
text: A CANDELABRA is lifted to the preening Prince as he looks at
text: himself in an ornate HAND MIRROR.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: ... and his parties with the most
dialog: beautiful people.
dialog: 2.
scene_heading: 3 INT. BALLROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 3
text: The ornate room is filled with BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE from all
text: corners of the world, each on display for the Prince's
text: pleasure. A circle of eligible maidens bow their heads.
text: Seated in a throne chair dominated by a majestic COAT OF
text: ARMS, the Prince snaps his fingers impatiently at an ITALIAN
text: MAESTRO, who smiles, revealing comically rotten teeth.
text: The maestro sits at a harpsichord and motions to his wife, a
text: LARGE DIVA holding a TINY BICHON FRISÉ. As the music begins,
text: the Prince steps forward.
text: The diva fills the room with a voice as big as her frame.
text: The Prince performs a ROUNDELAY with several debutantes:
speaker_heading: DIVA
dialog: Oh how divine
dialog: Glamour, music and magic combine
dialog: See the maidens so anxious to shine
dialog: Look for a sign that enhances
dialog: Chances
dialog: She'll be his special one
scene_heading: 5 INT. BALLROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 5
text: The dance speeds up. The Prince connects momentarily with a
text: beautiful woman -- but quickly moves on when his eye catches
text: someone even more dazzling:
speaker_heading: DIVA
dialog: What a display!
dialog: What a breathtaking thrilling array
dialog: (coos to the dog)
dialog: Every prince, every dog has his day
dialog: Let us sing with passion, gusto
dialog: Fit to bust - oh
dialog: Not a care in the world
text: KNOCK KNOCK. The Prince stops. Then a gust of wind blows open
text: the windows. Sconces flicker and go dark. The figure enters
text: in silhouette, hobbling on a CANE.
text: Furious, the Prince grabs a lit candelabra from the Footman.
text: He rudely pushes through the crowd, sweeping people from his
text: path. He crosses to the windows, finally revealing --
text: AN OLD BEGGAR WOMAN shivering from the rain. She looks to the
text: Prince with hope and offers him -- A RED ROSE.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
text: Then, one night, an unexpected intruder
text: arrived at the castle, seeking shelter
dialog: from the bitter storm. As a gift, she
dialog: offered the Prince a single rose.
dialog: 3.
text: The PRINCE'S HAND waves her off. The woman begs on her knees.
text: The Prince motions to the staff.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
text: Repulsed by her haggard appearance, the
text: Prince turned the woman away. But she
dialog: warned him not to be deceived by
dialog: appearances, for beauty is found within.
text: The majordomo and footman approach to usher her out. The woman
text: lowers her head as if to cry --
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: And when he dismissed her again, the old
text: woman's outward appearance melted away
dialog: to reveal...
text: Suddenly, the old woman's cape and hood cocoon. AN ERUPTION OF
text: LIGHT as she transforms into...
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: ...a beautiful Enchantress.
text: The wind picks up inside the room. Frightened, the Prince
text: falls to his knees.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: The Prince tried to apologize but it
dialog: was too late. For she had seen that
dialog: there was no love in his heart.
text: As the Prince begs for mercy, his body begins to transform.
text: His jewelry pops off. His clothing rips as he grows larger.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: As punishment, she transformed him
dialog: into a hideous beast...
text: The guests scream in horror and flee. But pushing his way
text: through the crowd, A YOUNG BOY slips into the ballroom,
text: watching in wonder as -- the PRINCE'S SHADOW twists into the
text: SHADOW OF A HIDEOUS BEAST.
text: The boy's mother frantically follows him inside --
speaker_heading: BOY'S MOTHER
dialog: Chip! Chip! Oh my...
text: -- just as the doors slam shut, leaving the staff, the
text: entertainers and the dog trapped in the room.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: ... and placed a powerful spell on the
dialog: castle and all who lived there.
dialog: 4.
scene_heading: 5A INT. BALLROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 5A
text: CLOSE ON a portrait of the handsome prince -- as the beast's
text: giant paw slashes it.
scene_heading: 6 EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT 6
text: Years later, the enchanted castle stands isolated. The
text: property is surrounded by an ice hedge. The only sound is the
text: grim winter wind. As we move closer:
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: As days bled into years, the Prince
dialog: and his servants were forgotten by the
dialog: world. For the Enchantress had erased
dialog: all memory of them from the minds of
dialog: the people they loved.
scene_heading: 7 EXT./INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - NIGHT 7
text: At the highest window of the west wing, we see THE BEAST. The
text: ROSE, already wilting, floats before him. To protect it, the
text: beast has covered it with a glass bell jar.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: But the rose she had offered was truly
dialog: an enchanted rose. If he could learn to
dialog: love another and earn their love in
dialog: return by the time the last petal fell,
dialog: the spell would be broken. If not, he
dialog: would be doomed to remain a beast for
dialog: all time.
text: TIGHT ON THE ROSE -- another petal drops.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (V.O.)
dialog: As the years passed, he fell into
dialog: despair and lost all hope. For who
dialog: could ever learn to love a beast?
scene_heading: 8 EXT. BELLE'S COTTAGE - MORNING 8
text: The front door of a cozy cottage opens to reveal -- BELLE, a
text: pure beauty blessed with intelligent, fiercely inquisitive eyes.
text: With book in hand, she takes a deep breath of morning air and
text: gazes toward the church which peeks above the village rooftops.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Little town, it's a quiet village
dialog: Every day like the one before
dialog: Little town full of little people
dialog: Waking up to say...
text: Belle looks at the clock on the church counting to 8am. Wait
dialog: for it. 3. 2. 1.
dialog: 5.
scene_heading: 9 EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - MORNING 9
text: On cue, the villagers begin their day. A HOUSEWIFE opens a
text: window, nods to a WOMAN shaking out a rug nearby. A BUTCHER
text: opens his shop, waves to a COBBLER moving past with his cart.
speaker_heading: VILLAGERS
dialog: Bonjour. Bonjour. Bonjour. Bonjour.
text: An old VAGRANT is the only one to notice Belle, smiling at her
text: as he's tossed inside a HOLDING TANK by two GENDARMES.
speaker_heading: VAGRANT
dialog: Bonjour.
text: Belle weaves between the villagers, making herself invisible.
text: She passes a harried BAKER, buys a baguette --
speaker_heading: BELLE
text: There goes the baker with his tray like
dialog: always
dialog: The same old bread and rolls to sell
text: Belle approaches JEAN, the potter, tending to his MULE.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Every morning just the same
dialog: Since the morning that we came
dialog: To this poor provincial town
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: Good morning, Belle
text: Jean scratches his head, trying to remember something. He
text: searches his cart which is loaded with pottery.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Good morning, Monsieur Jean. Have you
dialog: lost something again?
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: I believe I have. Problem is, I can't
dialog: remember what. Well, I'm sure it will
dialog: come to me.
text: As she leaves:
speaker_heading: JEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Where are you off to?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: To return this book to Pere Robert.
text: It's about two lovers in fair Verona.
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: Sounds boring.
dialog: 6.
text: Later -- Belle passes SCHOOL BOYS as they march into the school
text: house. Their heads turn in unison.
speaker_heading: SCHOOL BOYS
dialog: Look there she goes
dialog: That girl is strange, no question
text: The NASTY HEADMASTER ushers them in impatiently.
speaker_heading: NASTY HEADMASTER
dialog: Dazed and distracted, can't you tell?
text: As the boys scramble into school, Belle steps on the stones
text: over the duck pond -- revealing GIRLS forced into "woman's
text: work" chores, washing clothes in the circular laverie.
text: They're surrounded by women kneading clothes on barrels.
speaker_heading: WASHER WOMEN
dialog: Never part of any crowd
dialog: `Cause her head's up on some cloud
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRLS
dialog: No denying she's a funny girl
dialog: That Belle
text: A FLIRTATIOUS FARMER approaches a PRETTY FISHMONGER'S WIFE.
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: Bonjour, good day, how is your family?
scene_heading: PRETTY FISHMONGER'S WIFE
dialog: (pointed)
dialog: Bonjour, good day, how is your wife?
text: THE FISHMONGER pops up next to his wife, sending the would-be-
text: Lothario into retreat. Another fishmonger, the shrewish
text: CLOTHILDE, accosts him:
speaker_heading: CLOTHILDE
dialog: I need six eggs
text: The FARMER points out the price. Belle moves past.
speaker_heading: CLOTHILDE (CONT'D)
dialog: That's too expensive
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: There must be more than this provincial
dialog: life
scene_heading: 10 INT. CHURCH VESTRY - DAY 10
text: Belle escapes into the peace and serenity of a country
text: church. Jolly PERE ROBERT looks up as she enters.
dialog: 7.
speaker_heading: PERE ROBERT
dialog: Well! If it isn't the only bookworm
dialog: in town. So where did you run off to
dialog: this week?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Two cities in Northern Italy. I
dialog: didn't want to come back.
text: Belle hands "Romeo and Juliet" to Pere Robert, who dutifully
text: returns it to the shelves of the town's "library": a COUPLE
text: DOZEN BOOKS in total. She remains hopeful.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Have you got any new places to go?
speaker_heading: PERE ROBERT
dialog: I'm afraid not. But you may reread
dialog: any of the old ones that you'd like.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Thank you, Pere Robert. Your library
dialog: almost makes our small corner of the
dialog: world feel big.
text: He smiles. Belle picks up a new book and smiles back.
speaker_heading: PERE ROBERT
dialog: Bon voyage.
scene_heading: 11 EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - DAY 11
text: ANGLE ON BELLE -- nose planted in her book, she walks down
text: into the crowded market which is just being set up. Belle
text: passes TOM, DICK, and STANLEY - all burly, tough guys.
scene_heading: TOM, DICK &amp; STANLEY
dialog: Look -- there she goes
dialog: The girl is so peculiar
text: Belle buys jam then glides past an APOTHECARY's open cart:
speaker_heading: APOTHECARY
dialog: I wonder if she's feeling well
text: Belle ducks under CHEESE SELLERS carrying their trays:
speaker_heading: CHEESE SELLERS
text: With a dreamy far-off look
text: And her nose stuck in a book
dialog: What a puzzle to the rest of us
dialog: Is Belle
text: Behind her, FLORISTS pass with huge bouquets. It's a glorious
text: parade but Belle remains oblivious as she continues to read...
dialog: 8.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Oh... isn't this amazing?
dialog: It's my favorite part because you'll see
dialog: Here's where she meets Prince Charming
dialog: But she won't discover that it's him
dialog: `Til chapter three
text: Three fashion-crazed VILLAGE LASSES -- all dressed in the same
text: style -- pop their heads from the windows of the dress shop.
text: Their MOTHER, who is besotted with Belle, heads outside when
text: she sees her:
scene_heading: VILLAGE LASSES' MOTHER
dialog: Now it's no wonder that her name means
dialog: "Beauty"
dialog: Her looks have got no parallel
text: Her daughters follow, seething with jealousy:
speaker_heading: VILLAGE LASS #1
dialog: But behind that fair facade
dialog: I'm afraid she's rather odd
scene_heading: VILLAGE LASSES' MOTHER
dialog: (greets Belle)
dialog: Very different from the rest of us
speaker_heading: VILLAGE LASSES
dialog: She's nothing like the rest of us
dialog: Yes, different from the rest of us
text: Belle slips through the crowd.
speaker_heading: VILLAGERS
dialog: Is Belle
scene_heading: 11A EXT. VILLAGE PROMONTORY - DAY 11A
text: Looking down on the village is GASTON, a dashingly handsome
text: war hero clad in a dazzling gold breastplate. The only thing
text: bigger than his muscles is his ego. Strapped on his saddle
text: is a musket and the spoils of his hunt: rabbit, fox, and
text: fowl. Riding beside him is Gaston's long-suffering aide-de-
dialog: camp and devoted best friend LEFOU.
text: Through his spyglass, Gaston spots Belle.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Look at her, LeFou. My future wife.
dialog: Belle is the most beautiful girl in
dialog: the village. That makes her the best.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: But she's so well-read, and you're
dialog: so...
dialog: (about to say "not")
dialog: Athletically inclined.
dialog: 9.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: I know. Belle can be as argumentative
text: as she is beautiful.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Exactly, who needs her, when you've
dialog: got us!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Yes, but ever since the war I've been
dialog: missing something. And she's the only
dialog: girl I've met who gives me that sense
dialog: of...
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Je ne sais quoi?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: I don't know what that means.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - DAY
text: Gaston and LeFou ride through the village gates. Gaston
text: motions toward Belle in the village square. Geese flock
text: around her feet, seeming to follow her.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Right from the moment when I met her,
dialog: saw her
dialog: I said she's gorgeous and I fell
dialog: Here in town there's only she
dialog: Who is beautiful as me
dialog: So I'm making plans to woo and marry
dialog: Belle
text: As Gaston passes, the lasses try to catch his eye.
speaker_heading: VILLAGE LASSES
dialog: Look there he goes, isn't he dreamy
dialog: Monsieur Gaston, oh he's so cute
dialog: Be still my heart I'm hardly breathing
dialog: He's such a tall, dark, strong and
dialog: handsome brute
text: As Gaston dismounts, the lasses get splattered with mud from
text: his horse's hooves. LeFou shoots them a look, whispers:
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: It's never gonna happen, ladies.
text: Noticing Belle crossing the market, Gaston starts off in
text: pursuit. He grabs flowers from the PERFUME STALL and makes a
text: bouquet. As they each make their way through the market:
scene_heading: WASHER WOMEN #1, 2, 3 GASTON
dialog: Bonjour! Pardon!
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: BELLE BARMAID
dialog: Good day. Mais oui!
speaker_heading: TOM HOUSEWIFE #1
dialog: You call this bacon? What lovely flowers!
scene_heading: CHEESEMAKER #2 WOOD CARRIER
dialog: Some cheese... ...Ten yards!
scene_heading: BREAD BUYER GASTON
dialog: ...One pound. `Scuse me!
speaker_heading: CHEESEMAKER #1 GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: I'll get the knife. Please let me through!
speaker_heading: JAM SELLER COBBLER
dialog: This bread... Those fish...
speaker_heading: JAM SELLER COBBLER (CONT'D)
dialog: It's stale! They smell!
speaker_heading: BELLE GASTON
dialog: There must be more than this Just watch -- I'm going to
dialog: provincial life! make Belle my wife!
text: The image swells to reveal the whole village, singing.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Look there she goes a girl who's
dialog: Strange but special
dialog: A most peculiar mademoiselle
dialog: It's a pity and a sin
dialog: She doesn't quite fit in!
speaker_heading: VILLAGE LASSES
dialog: But she really is a funny girl
speaker_heading: VILLAGE MEN
dialog: A beauty but a funny girl
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: She really is a funny girl that Belle!
text: Slightly out of breath, Gaston finally catches up with Belle.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Good morning, Belle! Wonderful book you
dialog: have there.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: You've read it?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Well, not that one. But, you know.
dialog: Books.
dialog: (hands her the flowers)
dialog: For your dinner table. Shall I join you
dialog: this evening?
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Sorry, not tonight.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Busy?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: No.
text: A mortified smile and Belle is off. LeFou approaches.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: So. Moving on?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: No, LeFou. It's the ones who play
dialog: hard to get that are always the
dialog: sweetest prey.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: That's what makes Belle so appealing.
dialog: She hasn't made a fool of herself just
dialog: to gain my favor. What would you call
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Dignity?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: It's outrageously attractive, isn't
dialog: it?
text: Gaston looks at the village lasses standing outside of the
text: tavern. They all give him the eye. Gaston saunters over.
scene_heading: 12 EXT. BELLE'S COTTAGE - DAY 12
text: Belle hears the tinkle of a sweet MUSIC BOX tune wafting out of
text: her father's basement workshop.
scene_heading: 13 INT. CELLAR WORK ROOM - BELLE'S COTTAGE - DAY 13
text: Belle descends into to her father's dusty work room. Sunlight
text: spotlights MAURICE hunched over his workspace. Belle quietly
text: watches as he sings along with the music box theme.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: How does a moment last forever?
dialog: How can a story never die?
dialog: It is love we must hold on to
dialog: Never easy -- but we try
text: Maurice tinkers with gears on the box, which depicts an artist
text: in a Parisian garret, painting his wife's portrait as she holds
text: a red rose above their baby.
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Sometimes our happiness is captured
text: Somehow a time and place stand still
dialog: Love lives on inside our hearts
dialog: And always will
dialog: (seeing Belle)
dialog: Oh, good, Belle, you're back. Can you
dialog: please hand me the --
text: Before he can say the word "screwdriver" it's in his hand.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: And the --
text: Tweezers. Then Belle hands him a small hammer...
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: No no I don't need --
text: ... just as a spring pops off.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Actually yes, that's exactly what I
dialog: need.
text: He goes back to tinkering. Belle gazes at other music boxes,
text: each a small work of art, depicting famous landmarks from
dialog: around the world.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Papa, do you think I'm odd?
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: My daughter? Odd? Where did you get
dialog: an idea like that?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I don't know. People talk.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Oh. People. This village may be
text: small, small-minded even, but small
dialog: also means safe.
text: Maurice can see this line of argument doesn't do much for his
dialog: daughter.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Even back in Paris, I knew a girl who
dialog: was so different, so daring, so ahead
dialog: of her time that people mocked her
dialog: until the day they found themselves
text: imitating her.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Just tell me one more thing about her.
dialog: 13.
text: Maurice turns to the music box as if to change the subject.
text: But looking back up to Belle's eagerness, he relents.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Your mother was... fearless.
dialog: Fearless.
text: With that, Maurice closes his music box.
scene_heading: 14 EXT. BELLE'S COTTAGE - DAY 14
text: As Maurice carefully loads his music boxes onto his wagon,
text: Belle tends to the family's old glue horse, PHILIPPE.
text: Maurice climbs into the wagon, and smiles down at his
dialog: daughter.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: What would you like me to bring you from
dialog: the market?
speaker_heading: BELLE
text: A rose like the one in the painting.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: You ask for that every year.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: And every year, you bring it.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Then I shall bring you another. You
dialog: have my word. Come on, Philippe!
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I'll see you tomorrow!
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Tomorrow! With the rose!
text: As Maurice rides away, Belle's warmth gives way to concern.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Stay safe...
scene_heading: 14A INT. BELLE'S COTTAGE - TACKROOM - DAY 14A
text: Surrounded by design sketches, Belle's workbench features a
text: small model of her `washing machine' prototype. Belle places
text: the miniature barrel in position... fastens a rope to a
text: leather strap... shaves chips off a block of soap... collects
text: the soap chips in a small sack... and rushes out.
scene_heading: 15 EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - LAVERIE - DAY 15
text: A young WASHER GIRL watches as --
dialog: 14.
text: Belle tosses clothes and some soap chips into an empty BARREL
text: and rolls it into the fountain! It bobs on its side. Tying the
text: other end of the strap to the mule's harness, she sets him
text: walking around the circular laverie...
speaker_heading: WASHER GIRL
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: The laundry.
text: With a smile, Belle points to the rotating barrel, which now
text: resembles a very early Whirlpool washing machine. Belle takes
text: her book and quietly begins to read. After a moment, she looks
text: up to find the washer girl staring at her, speechless.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Come!
text: Belle waves for the girl to join her.
scene_heading: 16 EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - LAVERIE - DAY (LATER) 16
text: The NASTY HEADMASTER emerges from the school house to see --
text: The barrel is now filled with sudsy clothes. Belle is sitting
text: with the washer girl. She holds a book open, teaching the girl
dialog: to read.
speaker_heading: WASHER GIRL
dialog: (struggling)
text: The blue bird flies...
speaker_heading: BELLE
text: ...over the dark wood.
speaker_heading: NASTY HEADMASTER
dialog: What on earth are you doing?
text: He is joined by the fishmonger CLOTHILDE, outraged.
speaker_heading: NASTY HEADMASTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Teaching another girl to read? Isn't
dialog: one enough?
text: Belle locks eyes with the headmaster, then turns back to the
text: girl. The headmaster seethes.
speaker_heading: CLOTHILDE
dialog: We have to do something.
scene_heading: 18 EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - LAVERIE - DAY (LATER) 18
text: Belle's washing machine is hauled out of the laverie and
text: dumped onto the ground. She collects her laundry from the
text: dirt, trying to remain poised before the gawking crowd.
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: 17 EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - DAY (LATER) 17
text: Gaston shakes his head and laughs, absolutely smitten.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: You are the wildest, most beautiful
dialog: thing I've ever seen. No one deserves
dialog: you, but at least I know our children
dialog: will be beautiful.
text: A reverse angle reveals Gaston was addressing his reflection
text: in a shop window.
speaker_heading: LEFOU (O.S.)
dialog: Am I catching you at a bad time?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: What is it, LeFou?
speaker_heading: LEFOU
text: A certain damsel is in distress.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Oh well. It's hero time.
dialog: (to his reflection)
dialog: I'm not done with you yet.
text: And he's off. LeFou steps up to the mirror.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Me neither.
scene_heading: 19 EXT. BELLE'S COTTAGE - DAY (LATER) 19
text: Gaston follows Belle back to her cottage.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Belle! Heard you had a little trouble
dialog: with the headmaster. He never liked
dialog: me, either. Can I give you a little
dialog: advice about the villagers, though?
dialog: They're never going to trust the kind
dialog: of change we're trying to bring.
text: Pursuing her into her garden, he trampling cabbages.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: All I wanted was to teach a child to
dialog: read.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: The only children you should concern
dialog: yourself with are... your own.
text: Belle looks for a way out. She doesn't like where this is
dialog: going.
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I'm not ready to have children.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Maybe you haven't met the right man.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: It's a small village, Gaston. I've
dialog: met them all.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Maybe you should take another look.
dialog: Some of us have changed.
text: She climbs the steps to her cottage door. Gaston follows
text: close behind.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Gaston, we could never make each other
dialog: happy. No one can change that much.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Belle, do you know what happens to
dialog: spinsters in our village after their
dialog: fathers die?
text: Gaston motions to the street, where we find AGATHE, a
text: spinster, late 30's, dirty and homeless, rattling her cup:
dialog: "alms for the poor?"
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
text: They beg for scraps, like poor Agathe.
dialog: This is our world, Belle. For simple
dialog: folk like us, it doesn't get any better.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I might be a farm girl, but I'm not
dialog: simple. I'm sorry, but I will never
dialog: marry you, Gaston.
text: Gaston keeps the gallant smile plastered as she shuts the door
text: in his face.
scene_heading: 20 EXT. BELLE'S COTTAGE - SUNSET 20
text: Belle watches Gaston leave. She opens the door.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Can you imagine? Me, the wife of that
dialog: boorish, brainless...
text: She turns away from the home she thinks she will never
dialog: escape.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Madame Gaston, can't you just see it
dialog: Madame Gaston, his little wife
dialog: No sir, not me, I guarantee it
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: I want much more than this
dialog: Provincial life...
scene_heading: 21 EXT. VILLAGE PROMONTORY - SUNSET 21
text: Belle races up the hills to the outskirts of town. When she
text: reaches the highest point, we circle around to reveal the town
text: spread out beneath her.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I want adventure in the great wide
dialog: somewhere
dialog: I want it more than I can tell
dialog: And for once it might be grand
dialog: To have someone understand
dialog: I want so much more than
dialog: They've got planned
text: As the last rays of light fade we RISE to reveal a forest in the
dialog: 
text: distance, where the skies begin to rage. A swirling wind and a
dialog: streak of...
scene_heading: 22 EXT. WOODS - EVENING 22
text: Lightning. The sky flashes. The wind picks up. Worried,
text: Maurice urges Philippe on.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: The woods are lovely, aren't they
dialog: Philippe...? I only wish I recognized
dialog: them. Do you know where we are?
dialog: Because I don't.
text: As the woods get darker, a WITHERED TREE that looks like an
text: ELDERLY PERSON'S CANE is struck by lightning.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Whoa!
text: The tree splits in two, one half falling into the road,
text: revealing... a HIDDEN PATH. Philippe whinnies nervously.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hmm... yes, we can go this way. Walk
dialog: on! One path closes, another one
text: opens.
text: They leave the blocked road and head down the path. Maurice
text: looks down to see a light snow cover on the ground. Philippe
text: snorts.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: It's all right boy, it's just a bit of
dialog: snow... in June.
dialog: And they descend into --
dialog: 18.
scene_heading: 23 EXT. ENCHANTED WOODS - EVENING 23
text: We have entered another world. A light, whirling snow
text: descends on Maurice, dusting his coat. The clippity-clop of
text: hooves echo in stillness.
text: Suddenly, A WHITE WOLF roars out of the bushes, barely missing
text: them. Gaze darting, Maurice notices WHITE WOLVES running on an
text: icy ledge above him. The wolves keep pace, massing to overrun
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Go, Philippe! Hurry!
text: Maurice urges his horse on, but his rickety cart starts to
text: buckle. A HARNESS IS LOOSE.
text: The wolves leap in front of the cart, which comes undone,
text: tipping over on its side. The chest of music boxes smashes open
text: on the ground. Maurice is launched up onto a ridge -- and finds
text: himself face-to-face with the snarling and scarred ALPHA WOLF.
text: Terrified, Maurice turns and begins sliding down the snowy ridge
dialog: 
text: -- towards a trio of wolves waiting below.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Philippe!
text: As Maurice drops from the ridge, Philippe appears beneath him --
dialog: 
text: and Maurice lands on his back!
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Go! Go!
text: Philippe rides. PAWS crush twigs -- SLAVERING JAWS -- EYES mad
text: with hunger -- a gleam of FANGS -- Philippe gallops. Maurice
text: races toward the CASTLE ICE GATES -- which churn open as the
text: wolves draw near.
text: Maurice and Philippe speed through the gates as the wolves skid
text: to a stop, their HOWLS turning to YELPS OF FEAR.
scene_heading: 24 EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - EVENING 24
text: Maurice stares in open-mouth awe at THE BEAST'S CASTLE. A grey
text: edifice seemingly growing out of stone and reaching to troubled
text: skies. It feels like a place hiding its face from the world.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: (to Philippe)
dialog: Oh Philippe, you saved my life...
dialog: They'll have to get their dinner
dialog: somewhere else.
text: ANGLE ON MAURICE -- as he draws near the castle, he notices a
text: colonnade filled with WHITE ROSE BUSHES. Just beyond, he sees
text: the door to the STABLES swinging in the wind. A LAMP has been
text: lit inside. As if inviting a tired traveler.
dialog: 19.
text: Maurice strokes Philippe's neck.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Water, fresh hay. Looks like you're
dialog: set, old friend. Rest here...
text: Warily, Maurice peers out at the intimidating castle.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: While I pay my respects to our unwitting
dialog: host... whoever that may be...
text: He leaves. Philippe stares uneasily at a statue of a horse.
scene_heading: 25 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - EVENING 25
text: Cautiously, Maurice approaches the castle door. He gazes up at
text: a row of TORCHES held by sculpted iron hands. The hands are so
text: life-like, does a double-take.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Hm.
dialog: Then --
scene_heading: 26 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 26
text: -- the DOOR OPENS with a creak. Maurice peers in.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Hello? Anyone home?
text: Silence. Flashes of lightning illuminate a once-elegant space
text: now fallen into disrepair.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Forgive me, I don't mean to intrude. I
dialog: need shelter from the storm. Hello?
text: Maurice puts his hat and coat on a COAT RACK at the entrance.
text: Maurice turns, not seeing the coat rack shake the snow off.
text: Maurice explores, scanning the room and its FURNITURE --
text: TABLES, CHAIRS, A FEATHER DUSTER. A MANTLE CLOCK AND
text: CANDELABRA SIT ON A TABLE. As Maurice passes them, the
text: candelabra slowly TURNS -- as if watching him. This is
text: LUMIÈRE, formerly head footman to the Prince.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Must have lost his way in the woods...
text: The candelabra continues craning -- while the mantle clock
text: beside it remains rigid. Meet COGSWORTH, every bit the stiff-
dialog: upper-lip majordomo.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Shut up, you idiot.
dialog: 20.
text: Hearing this, Maurice spins -- but sees only an ordinary
text: candelabra and clock on the table. Curious, he approaches,
text: leaning down to the clock...
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Mm... extraordinary.
text: He picks up the candelabra, inspecting it.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: This is beautiful...
text: An echo of eerie harpsichord music makes Maurice turn toward
text: the ballroom. He places the candelabra back down and exits.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: A man of taste.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: He was talking about me.
scene_heading: 26A INT. BALLROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 26A
text: Maurice walks through a door into a dark cavernous room. His
text: eyes adjust to the light and he realizes he's in a VAST
text: BALLROOM. Once the scene of joy, the ballroom knows only solemn
dialog: decay. Suddenly --
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Oops!
text: -- The harpsichord stops playing. Wary, Maurice goes back to --
dialog: 
scene_heading: 26B INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 26B
text: Maurice crosses to a crackling fire, speaking to his unseen
dialog: host.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Wherever you are, I'm just going to
dialog: warm myself by the fire...
text: Maurice warms his frozen fingers, rubs his hands together to
dialog: spread the heat.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: That's better. Oh, much better...
text: As Maurice turns to warm his backside, he hears the clink of
text: silverware from an adjoining room.
scene_heading: 27 INT. DINING ROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 27
text: Maurice enters to find a vast dining room dominated by a
text: BANQUET TABLE where a meal has been set out.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Oh, thank you!
dialog: 21.
text: Famished, Maurice sits, tears off a hunk of bread and devours
text: it ravenously.
text: As Maurice looks around for something to wash down the food, a
text: CUP OF TEA slides into his hand. Maurice calmly gives the cup a
text: double-take. Meet CHIP, an 8 year-old boy tea cup. He
dialog: whispers:
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Mom said I wasn't supposed to move
dialog: because it might be scary. Sorry.
text: Maurice chews, smiles benevolently.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: It's all right.
text: And bolts from the table.
scene_heading: 28 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 28
text: Like any sane person, Maurice backs toward the door. He bows
text: and calls into the shadows...
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Thank you. Really, I cannot thank you
dialog: enough for your hospitality...
dialog: (takes his coat and hat)
dialog: ... And kindness.
text: A flash of lightning briefly illuminates a BEASTLY SHAPE on the
text: staircase. At the next flash -- THE SHAPE IS GONE.
scene_heading: 29 EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - NIGHT 29
text: Maurice rides Philippe away from the castle. He notices the
text: colonnade filled with rose bushes again.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Roses! Yes...
text: Maurice dismounts, checking to see that he hasn't been
text: followed from the castle. He strokes his nervous horse,
text: leaving him outside as he enters.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Can't go home empty handed... I
dialog: promised Belle a rose, didn't I? I
dialog: think it's safe...
text: We catch GLIMPSES of A DARK SHAPE moving atop the colonnade.
text: A taloned PAW. A swishing TAIL.
text: Philippe snorts, sensing danger. Maurice spies a single
text: PERFECT WHITE ROSE among the others.
text: CLOSE on the beast's EYES. Enraged. Wounded.
dialog: 22.
text: Maurice reaches for it.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ow!
text: Pricked by a thorn, he pulls his hand back -- then tries
text: again. He PICKS the rose -- only to hear a booming ROAR from
dialog: above.
text: ANGLE ON MAURICE -- terrified as the dark shape leaps down
text: from the colonnade. Maurice drops the rose, stumbling and
text: falling as a DARK SHADOW is cast over him.
text: Philippe breaks his harness, whinnies in terror and flees,
text: charging through the castle grounds and out the ice gates.
scene_heading: 29A EXT. VILLAGE PROMONTORY - DAY 29A
text: A first whisper of dawn as Philippe bursts out of the forest.
text: He thunders down to the village.
scene_heading: 30 EXT. BELLE'S COTTAGE - DAY 30
text: The sun is fresh on the horizon, and Belle is already up. A
text: whinny disturbs her. She looks up to find Philippe, thirsty
text: and exhausted.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Philippe?
text: Belle puts strokes the horse's neck as he drinks deeply from the
dialog: 
dialog: trough.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: What happened? Where is Papa?!
text: Belle goes still. Notices Philippe's torn straps and tattered
text: reins. In dread, her gaze darts to the woods.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Take me to him!
scene_heading: 31 EXT. WOODS - DAY 31
text: Sunlight barely seeps through the thick branches lighting
text: Belle's way as Philippe gallops past the FALLEN CANE TREE.
scene_heading: 32 EXT. ENCHANTED WOODS - DAY 32
text: Belle races through the enchanted woods, coming upon Maurice's
text: tipped over wagon. She sees the broken chest and scattered
dialog: music boxes.
text: With a mix of apprehension and determination, Belle sets her
text: jaw, and continues the gallop until the path brings her to...
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: 32A EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - DAY 32A
text: Belle dismounts Philippe. Finding a THICK BRANCH, she wields it
dialog: 
text: like a club, then bravely crosses to the castle and enters.
scene_heading: 33 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - DAY 33
text: Club held high, ready to defend herself, Belle cautiously eases
text: the door open and peeks inside.
text: The atmosphere of the castle presses in on Belle. Creepy DRAGON
dialog: 
text: STATUES on the staircase seem like they're watching. Eerie
text: SHADOWS stretch down impossibly long hallways.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Look, Cogsworth. A beautiful girl.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: I can see it's a girl. I lost my
dialog: hands, not my eyes.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: But what if she is the one? The one
dialog: who will break the spell?
text: Belle reacts. Quickly moves towards the voices --
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Who said that? Who's there?
text: Belle reaches the spot where she heard the voices. No one
text: there. Only a clock and candelabra. Suddenly, a COUGH echoes
text: through the castle. Belle grabs the candelabra and climbs a
text: long staircase. The clock shudders with dread.
scene_heading: 34 INT. PRISON TOWER - CASTLE - DAY 34
text: Belle follows the cough up a labyrinth of stairs until she
text: reaches the dark prison tower and a GRATED IRON DOOR.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Papa!? Is that you?
text: Belle sees Maurice through a grate in the door. He looks
text: terribly pale and sick, coughing.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (O.S.)
dialog: Belle? How did you find me!?
text: Belle puts the candelabra down and clutches his hands.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Oh, your hands are ice. We need to get
dialog: you home.
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Belle, you must leave here at once.
dialog: This castle is alive! Now go, before
dialog: he finds you!
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Who?!
text: The beast roars. Belle spins quickly, swinging her club to
text: strike, but the figure jumps onto another staircase. Belle
text: searches the shadows. The voice circles her.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Who's there? Who are you?
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (O.S.)
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I've come for my father.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (O.S.)
dialog: Your father is a thief.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Liar!
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (O.S.)
scene_heading: HE STOLE A ROSE.
text: In Belle's wide eyes, we see her guilt.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I asked for the rose. Punish me, not
dialog: him!
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: No, he means forever. Apparently
dialog: that's what happens around here when
dialog: you pick a flower.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: A life sentence for a rose?
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I received eternal damnation for one.
dialog: I'm merely locking him away. Now... do
dialog: you still wish to take your father's
dialog: place?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Come into the light.
text: The figure remains still. Belle grabs hold of Lumiere and
text: thrusts the candle forward, illuminating a HIDEOUS HORNED
text: FACE. Belle's eyes go wide as she clearly sees THE BEAST.
text: The only part of him that seems human are his eyes. BLUE.
dialog: 25.
text: DEEP. SOULFUL. And flicked with pain when he sees Belle's
text: revulsion.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
speaker_heading: CHOOSE!
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Belle, I won't let you do this. I
dialog: lost your mother. I won't lose you
dialog: too. Now go!
text: Maurice falls into a terrible coughing fit.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Alright, Papa. I will leave.
dialog: (to the beast)
dialog: I need a minute alone with him.
text: The beast doesn't respond.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you so cold-hearted that you won't
dialog: allow a daughter to kiss her father
dialog: goodbye?
dialog: (off his proud grunt)
dialog: Forever can spare a minute!
text: Intrigued by her defiance, the beast moves toward her, reaching
text: out with his massive paw. Belle closes her eyes, bracing
text: herself for his retaliation. Instead, she hears -- CLANG.
text: Belle opens her eyes to find herself eye to eye with the beast's
text: chest. He has reached high above her head to pull down an iron
text: lever, unlocking the door.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: When this door closes, it will not open
dialog: again.
scene_heading: 35 INT. PRISON CELL - CASTLE - CONTINUOUS 35
text: Belle rushes in and embraces her father.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I should have been with you.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Belle, listen to me. It's all right.
dialog: Live your life. Forget me.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Forget you? Everything I am is because
dialog: of you.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: I love you, Belle. Don't be afraid.
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I love you too, Papa...
text: She pulls him close.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm not afraid.
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: And I will escape, I promise.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: What?!
text: With that, she pivots and swings her father through the door
text: just as the beast slams it shut. Maurice trips to the ground,
text: giving the beast a second to turn to Belle. They lock eyes.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: You took his place.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: He is my father.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: He's a fool. So are you.
text: The beast turns and drags Maurice away.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Don't hurt him!
text: Through the latticework, Belle sees the beast and her father
text: disappear down the corridor. She rushes to the window and
text: watches the beast carry her father down the spiral staircase
text: of the prison tower.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Belle! I'll come back! I promise!
text: Once she is alone, Belle cannot help herself. She slumps to
text: the floor and the tears come. We FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: 36 OMITTED 36
speaker_heading: 37 OMITTED 37
speaker_heading: 38 OMITTED 38
scene_heading: 39 INT. CELL - PRISON TOWER - DUSK 39
text: Belle huddles in the corner. The cell door swings opens.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (O.S.)
dialog: Forgive my intrusion, mademoiselle,
dialog: but I have been sent to escort you to
dialog: your room.
dialog: 27.
text: Belle wipes her tears and stands. She grabs a small stool,
text: ready to strike.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: My room? But I thought --
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (O.S.)
dialog: What? That once this door closes it
dialog: will not open again, RARRR? I know, he
dialog: gets so dramatic.
text: Belle bounds out of the cell, raising the stool to hit a grown
text: man. Instead, she sees... a candelabra wave at her.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: `Allo.
speaker_heading: BELLE
speaker_heading: AHHH!
text: Like seeing a mouse, Belle bashes the candelabra. It grunts as
text: it clatters on the stone floor. The candles extinguished.
text: WHOOSH -- the first candle relights. WHOOSH -- the second.
text: Illuminated by the two arm candles, Belle makes out EYES and a
text: rudimentary "FACE" in the design.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: (recovering)
dialog: Oh, you are very strong. That's a
dialog: great quality!
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: What are you?
text: The arms light the main candle to reveal a rakish smile.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: I am Lumière.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: And you can talk.
text: Cogsworth appears, out of breath.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Of course he can talk, it's all he
dialog: ever does! Now Lumiere, as head of
dialog: the household, I demand that you put
text: her back in the cell at once!
text: Officially freaked out now, Belle retreats to her cell, in
dialog: search of a better weapon.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: What do you want to be for the rest of
dialog: your life, Cogsworth: a man or a mantle
dialog: clock?
dialog: 28.
text: They turn back to Belle, re-emerging from the cell.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ready, miss?
dialog: (to Cogsworth)
dialog: Trust me.
scene_heading: 40 EXT. ROOFTOP WALKWAY - CASTLE - EVENING 40
text: Holding Lumière, Belle follows Cogsworth across a stone walkway
text: high above the grounds. Her eyes dart, looking for an escape
text: route. Instead, she sees how vast the castle and woods are.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: You must forgive first impressions, I
dialog: hope you are not too startled.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Why would I be startled? I'm talking
text: to a candle.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Candelabra, please. Enormous
dialog: difference. But consider me at your
dialog: service. The castle is your home now,
dialog: so feel free to go anywhere you like --
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Except the west wing!
text: Lumière throws him a `would-you-please-shut-up' look.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH (CONT'D)
dialog: Which we do not have.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Why, what's in the west wing?
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Uh... nothing. Storage space. That's
dialog: it.
text: Belle looks back at the spooky tower of the west wing.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: This way, please!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
text: To the east wing.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Or as I like to call it, the only
dialog: wing! Watch your step s'il vous
dialog: plait.
dialog: 29.
scene_heading: 41 INT. CORRIDOR/BELLE'S BEDROOM - CASTLE - EVENING 41
text: Belle stands outside the bedroom door, anticipating worse
dialog: squalor...
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Welcome to your new home. It's
dialog: modest, but comfortable...
text: Instead, the door opens to --
scene_heading: 42 INT. BELLE'S BEDROOM - CASTLE - EVENING 42
text: -- the most beautiful, magical room she's ever seen. The entire
dialog: 
text: ceiling is a painting of white clouds in a blue sky. There is a
text: LARGE DRESSER and a COMFORTABLE BED. Opulence.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: It's... beautiful.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Of course. Master wanted you to have
text: the finest room in the castle.
text: Lumière leaps onto the bed and - POOF - dust fills the air.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh dear! We were not expecting guests.
text: PLUMETTE, a feather duster, swoops into the room, giving the
text: surfaces a quick dusting.
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: Enchanté, Mademoiselle! Don't worry,
dialog: I'll have this room spotless in no
dialog: time!
text: She lands in the arms of Lumière, whose candles burn a little
text: hotter once she speaks in her sexy French accent.
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: This plan of yours is... dangerous.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: I would risk anything to kiss you again,
dialog: Plumette.
text: He moves to embrace her, but she stops him.
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: No, my love. I've been burned by you
dialog: before. We must be strong.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: How can I be strong when you make me so
dialog: weak?
dialog: 30.
text: Cogsworth clears his throat. Belle backs away from the
dialog: strange creatures.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Is everything here alive?
dialog: (picks up a HAIR BRUSH)
dialog: Hello, what's your name?
text: Cogsworth looks up at her, puzzled.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Um... that's a hair brush.
text: Belle hears a loud SNORE behind her, and turns to see the
text: DRESSER bursting open with an operatic "laaaaaa!" Belle
text: shrieks and steps back.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Do not be alarmed, mademoiselle. This
dialog: is just your wardrobe. Meet Madame De
dialog: Garderobe. A great singer.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: When she can stay awake.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Cogsworth! A diva needs her beauty rrr-
text: MADAME DE GARDEROBE yawns loudly.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Ah, stay with us, Madame! We have
dialog: someone for you to dress!
text: Garderobe's gilded arms stroke Belle's shoulder and face.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
text: Finally. A woman. Pretty eyes.
dialog: Proud face. Perfect canvas. Yes! I
dialog: will find you something worthy of a
dialog: princess.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: But I'm not a princess.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Nonsense! Now, let's see what I've
dialog: got in my drawers.
text: Garderobe's doors open and a few moths fly out.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, how embarrassing.
text: Garderobe places a large HOOP over Belle's head, and proceeds
text: to create an outfit using fabric and her pinking-shear hands.
text: FROUFROU, a piano stool, runs in, barking like a dog.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE (CONT'D)
dialog: Come here, Froufrou. Come help mama!
text: Froufrou tugs at the fabric, helping Garderobe complete the
text: outfit -- which is garish and too too much, all wrong for
dialog: Belle.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE (CONT'D)
dialog: Perfetta!
text: Lumière and Cogsworth put on a game smile.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Mm. Subtle. Understated. I love it!
text: With a deep bow and a whistle for Froufrou, Lumière drags
text: Cogsworth out. Plumette and Froufrou follow. Garderobe calls
text: out after her beloved dog.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Froufrou, send my love to the maestro!
text: The door closes. Belle is alone. Garderobe instantly falls
text: asleep with a big SNORE. Belle has one beat of... where the
text: hell am I? She ducks down, then crawls out from underneath
text: the enormous dress, which remains standing.
text: Belle looks around the room with one thing in mind: escape.
text: She quickly moves to the window. Opens it. She looks down
text: at the 100 foot drop leading to the grounds.
text: Belle turns back to the room, and gazes at the dress. An
text: idea taking shape.
scene_heading: 43 EXT. COUNTRY INN - NIGHT 43
text: A LAMPLIGHTER is hard at work outside as we hear fiddle music
text: coming from the inn.
scene_heading: 44 INT. COUNTRY INN - NIGHT 44
text: Amidst the animal heads, antlers, and drunken villagers, there
text: is an even sadder sight -- GASTON. He drowns his sorrows in ale
text: while LEFOU listens.
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: Picture it, LeFou -- a rustic cabin.
dialog: My latest kill roasting on the fire.
dialog: Adorable children running around us
dialog: while my love rubs my tired feet. But
dialog: what does Belle say? "I will never
dialog: marry you, Gaston."
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: You know, there are other girls.
text: The village lasses perk up. "Yes! There are other girls!"
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: A great hunter doesn't waste his time on
dialog: rabbits.
text: The lasses deflate. "Awww!" LeFou decides it's time to cheer
text: up his best friend/boss. Thus begins "GASTON."
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Gosh it disturbs me to see you
dialog: Gaston looking so down in the dumps
dialog: Every guy here'd love to be you Gaston
dialog: Even when taking your lumps
dialog: There's no man in town as admired as you
dialog: You're everyone's fa-vor-ite guy
dialog: Everyone's awed and inspired by you
dialog: And it's not very hard to see why
text: LeFou gives a nod (and a large tip) to the FIDDLE PLAYER in the
text: corner, who nods back, and begins to play...
speaker_heading: LEFOU (CONT'D)
dialog: No one's slick as Gaston
dialog: No one's quick as Gaston
dialog: No one's neck's as incredibly thick as
dialog: Gaston
dialog: For there's no man in town half as manly
dialog: Perfect, a pure paragon!
dialog: You can ask any Tom, Dick or Stanley
dialog: And they'll tell you whose team they
dialog: prefer to be on!
text: LeFou hops onto the bar, squeezing himself between TOM, DICK,
text: and STANLEY.
scene_heading: TOM/DICK/STANLEY
dialog: Who plays darts like Gaston?
dialog: Who breaks hearts like Gaston?
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Who's much more than the sum of his
dialog: parts like Gaston?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (confidence growing)
dialog: As a specimen, yes, I'm intimidating
text: LeFou hails a BARMAID and buys everyone a round of drinks.
text: The villagers raise their mugs and cheer.
speaker_heading: LEFOU/VILLAGERS
dialog: My what a guy, that Gaston!
text: Gaston stands, and clasps LeFou in gratitude...
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: I needed encouragement; thank you, LeFou
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Well, there's no one as easy to bolster
dialog: as you!
text: ... only to find himself in an uncomfortably tight hug.
speaker_heading: LEFOU (CONT'D)
dialog: Too much?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Yep.
speaker_heading: VILLAGERS
dialog: No one fights like Gaston
dialog: Douses lights like Gaston!
speaker_heading: LEFOU
text: In a wrestling match nobody bites like
dialog: Gaston!
text: LeFou moves his shirt up his arm to show an old wrestling wound -
text: a nice teeth impression courtesy of Gaston. The villagers gasp.
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: When I hunt, I sneak up with my quiver
dialog: And beasts of the field say a prayer
dialog: First I carefully aim for the liver
dialog: Then I shoot from behind!
text: Gaston leaps onto the bar, and is handed a huge blunderbuss,
text: with which he mimes shooting LeFou.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Is that fair?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: I don't care
text: And Gaston fires the rifle into the ceiling! Plaster rains
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: VILLAGERS
dialog: No one hits like Gaston
dialog: Matches wits like Gaston
speaker_heading: LEFOU
text: In a spitting match nobody spits like
dialog: Gaston
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: I'M ESPECIALLY GOOD AT EXPECTORATING!
text: Gaston spits a big gloppy mess into a spittoon: bullseye! Then,
text: he moves around the inn, holding court.
speaker_heading: VILLAGERS
dialog: Ten points for Gaston!
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: When I was a lad I ate four dozen eggs
dialog: Ev'ry morning to help me get large
text: On one shoulder, Gaston lifts a pretty VILLAGE GIRL. On the
text: other, he lifts LeFou.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: And now that I'm grown I eat five dozen
dialog: eggs
dialog: So I'm roughly the size of a barge!
text: The crowd hollers. Gaston jumps on a long table. The table's
text: height plus his massive frame make him seem 10 feet tall.
text: He engages in a dance-break sword-fight with several VILLAGE
text: MEN, besting them all, until he's perfectly positioned beneath a
dialog: 
text: ceiling mural, mimicking it exactly: Gaston, saber raised,
text: victorious in battle -- with LeFou swooning at his feet.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Who has brains like Gaston?
dialog: Entertains like Gaston?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Who can make up these endless
dialog: Refrains like Gaston?
text: Gaston tromps on the table. He arrives at his WALL OF ANIMAL
text: HEADS and ANTLERS.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: I use antlers in all of my decorating!
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Say it again - who's a man among men?
dialog: And let's say it once more
dialog: Who's that hero next door?
dialog: Who's a super success?
dialog: Don't you know? Can't you guess?
dialog: Ask his fans and his five hangers-on
dialog: There's just one guy in town
dialog: Who's got all of it down...
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: And his name's `G-A-S-T... ' Uh, I
dialog: believe there's another `T' in there,
dialog: it just occurred to me that I'm
dialog: illiterate and I've never actually had
dialog: to spell it out loud before...
dialog: Gaston!
text: The villagers cheer as Gaston returns to his seat. Gaston slaps
dialog: 
text: LeFou on the shoulder, genuinely moved.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Ah LeFou, you're the best. How is it
dialog: that no girl has snatched you up yet?
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: I've been told I'm clingy, but I really
dialog: don't get it...
text: Just then, the door flies open to reveal a wild-eyed Maurice.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Help! Somebody help me! We have to
dialog: go... not a minute to lose...
speaker_heading: TAVERN KEEPER
dialog: Whoa. Slow down, Maurice.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: He's got Belle... locked in a dungeon!
speaker_heading: TAVERN KEEPER
dialog: Who's got her?
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: A beast... a horrible monstrous beast!
text: The patrons begin to laugh.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: My daughter's life is in danger, why do
dialog: you laugh!? His castle is hidden in the
dialog: woods. It's already winter there!
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: Winter in June?
speaker_heading: CLOTHILDE
dialog: Crazy old Maurice.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: The beast is real! Do you understand?!
dialog: Will no one help me?!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (ever the opportunist)
dialog: I'll help you, Maurice!
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: You will?
text: The villagers murmur in surprise.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (winks at LeFou)
dialog: Everyone! Stop making fun of this man
dialog: at once!
text: Maurice approaches. So grateful.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Thank you, Captain. Thank you.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Don't thank me, Maurice. Lead us to the
dialog: beast.
text: Maurice exits. Gaston follows, gesturing to LeFou.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: (finally getting it)
dialog: Ohhh.
scene_heading: 46 INT. KITCHEN - CASTLE - NIGHT 46
text: The staff is excited as they scramble to get ready for dinner.
text: CHIP, the 8 year-old tea cup, rides his saucer around like a
text: skateboard. He circles his teapot mother MRS. POTTS, a no-
dialog: nonsense yet loving governess.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Mama, there's a girl in the castle!
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Yes, Chip. We know. Slow down.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Is she pretty? Is she nice? What
dialog: kind of tea does she like?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: We'll find out soon enough. Slow down
dialog: before you break your handle!
text: But Chip doesn't slow down. Before Mrs. Potts can chase,
text: CUISINIÈR, the frustrated French chef-turned-oven, pours hot
dialog: water into her to prepare tea.
speaker_heading: CUISINIÈR
dialog: Heads up, Mrs. Potts!
text: She flushes and reacts with pleasure as if stepping into a warm
dialog: bath.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - CASTLE - SAME
text: The beast enters the dining room and sits at one end of a
text: long dining table. He looks at his place setting, surprised
text: to find flatware and crystal. Confused, he looks up.
text: THE BEAST'S POV rises to find another place setting at the
text: other end of the long table. When he notices the romantic
text: candles, he swats his own place setting off the table in
dialog: anger.
scene_heading: 47 INT. KITCHEN - CASTLE - SAME 47
text: A voice bellowing from the dining room causes Lumiere and
text: Cogsworth to turn.
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (O.S.)
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE!
text: Cogsworth balks with terror.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Be calm, let me do the talking.
text: A fuming beast storms in, and looks down at the assembled
text: staff. Lumière is as good a liar as Cogsworth is not.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: YOU'RE MAKING HER DINNER!?
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: We thought you might appreciate the
dialog: company.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Master, I can assure you that I had no
text: part in this hopeless plan. Preparing
text: a dinner, designing a gown for her,
text: giving her a suite in the east wing --
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: YOU GAVE HER A BEDROOM!?
text: Cornered by the beast, Cogsworth has no choice but to...
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: No no, he gave her a bedroom.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: That is true. But if the girl is the
dialog: one who can break the spell, maybe you
text: can start by using dinner to charm her.
dialog: (turns to Cogsworth)
dialog: Good thinking, Cogsworth!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: That's the most ridiculous idea I've
dialog: ever heard! "Charm the prisoner."
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: You must try, master. With every
dialog: passing day, we become less human.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: She's the daughter of a common thief.
dialog: What kind of person do you think that
dialog: makes her?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Oh, you can't judge people by who their
dialog: father is, now can you?
dialog: 38.
text: It's a loaded statement. The staff cringes, ready for his
text: retaliation. Instead, a grunt, and then --
scene_heading: 48 INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE BELLE'S BEDROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 48
text: KNOCK. KNOCK. The beast stands at Belle's door while his
text: servants stand by his side to play Cyrano.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: You will join me for dinner! That's not
dialog: a request.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
text: Gently, master. The girl lost her
text: father and her freedom in one day.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Yes. The poor thing is probably in
text: there, scared to death.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Exactly.
scene_heading: 49 INT. BELLE'S CASTLE BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 49
text: Actually, Belle has been actively planning her escape. Her
text: makeshift rope of fabric hangs 50 feet out of the window.
scene_heading: KNOCK. KNOCK.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Just a minute.
scene_heading: 50 INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE BELLE'S BEDROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 50
text: The servants react to hearing Belle's voice.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: You see, there she is. Now, master,
dialog: remember. Be gentle.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: ...kind...
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: ...charming...
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: ...sweet...
text: The words fly as they bury the beast with advice.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: And when she opens the door, give her a
dialog: dashing debonair smile. Come come --
dialog: show me the smile.
text: The beast flashes the most hideous grin anyone has ever seen.
text: The staff GASPS in horror.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh mon dieu.
text: Contorting his mouth, the beast turns back to the door.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Will you join me for dinner?
text: We wait a perfect beat and then, cut to...
scene_heading: 51 INT. BELLE'S BEDROOM/ INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS (INTERCUT)
dialog: 51
text: Belle moves to the door.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: You've taken me prisoner and now you
dialog: want to have dinner with me? Are you
dialog: insane?
text: The beast's temper rises -- his eyebrows twitch, his tail
text: thrashes -- recognizing the signs, Plumette inches away --
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: He's losing it...
text: The beast beats his fist on the door -- WHAM! WHAM! WHAM!
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I told you to come down to dinner.
text: Belle hits back. WHAM! WHAM! WHAM!
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: And I told you no!
text: All the banging finally wakes up Madame de Garderobe.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: WHAT!? WHAT TIME IS IT!?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I'd starve before I ever ate with you!
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Well be my guest! Go ahead and starve!
dialog: (as he leaves)
dialog: If she doesn't eat with me, then she
dialog: doesn't eat at all!
text: The staff hides, terrified, as the beast thunders off.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: Idiots!
text: Once the coast is clear, Cogsworth comes out of hiding with a
text: sword and puts on a show of bravery.
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: You can't talk to us like that! I
dialog: forbid it! I... I...
dialog: (to Lumière)
dialog: Am I too late? Shame. I was really
dialog: going to tell him off this time.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: (looks past Cogsworth)
dialog: Oh master, you've returned!
text: Cogsworth shrieks and spins -- only to realize he's been
dialog: duped.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Oh, very funny.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Eh, I got you there!
scene_heading: 52 INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - NIGHT 52
text: Fuming, the beast returns to his lair -- a chamber of shredded
text: furniture and walls ruined in rage. He paces, muttering. He
text: grabs a decaying HAND MIRROR.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Show me the girl.
text: The mirror lights up and gives him a view of Belle at the
text: bedroom door. She turns, slides down the wall, and curls her
text: knees up to her. A look of dread on her face.
text: Her fear crushes the beast. The mirror magic fades, and he is
text: left with his own reflection and self-loathing. He lowers the
text: mirror to reveal the glass jar by the open window.
text: In the jar, the ENCHANTED ROSE hangs in mid-air. The rose is
text: wilting. Most of its petals have fallen. Rage evaporating,
text: replaced by shame, the beast lowers his head...
text: ... as ONE MORE PETAL DROPS.
text: The image moves inside the jar. We see the beast through the
text: glass as he leans down, peering in at the petal as it reaches
text: the bottom and shrivels. As it does, we hear a far off RUMBLE,
text: as if the foundation of the castle is trembling.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT -- DAWN
text: From a distance, we see stone statuary crack and tumble down
dialog: from the castle walls...
scene_heading: 53 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 53
text: The staff is gathered; the beginning of their evening. Lumière
text: lights the fireplace. He hears the crash of falling debris.
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Another petal fell...
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: Lumière, I grew three more feathers!
dialog: And I just plucked yesterday.
text: Lumière moves to help, but his legs stiffen. He holds his flame
text: to his knee like a heating pad.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: I know, darling -- Ow! I'm getting
dialog: more metallic every day.
text: Suddenly, Cogsworth begins making clock sounds.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Oh, no! It's -- tick tock! --
dialog: happening again -- cuckoo! Pardon me.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Everyone, calm yourselves. We still
dialog: have time.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Mama, am I ever going to be a boy again?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Yes, Chip. You'll have your days in the
dialog: sun again. You just leave it to me.
scene_heading: 54 EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT 54
text: Belle throws her makeshift rope out the bedroom window.
scene_heading: 55 INT. BELLE'S BEDROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 55
text: Belle looks down -- the rope is about 20 feet off the ground.
text: Almost there. A KNOCK on the door.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I told you to go away.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (O.S.)
dialog: Don't worry, dear. It's only Mrs.
dialog: Potts.
text: Mrs. Potts bustles in on her cart with Chip.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, aren't you a vision! How lovely
dialog: to make your acquaintance.
text: Belle tries to block her view of the escape rope, but Mrs. Potts
dialog: is too sharp.
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: It's a very long journey. Let me fix
dialog: you up before you go. I have found
dialog: that most troubles seem less troubling
text: after a bracing cup o' tea.
text: The tea is poured into Chip, who wheels over to Belle.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
text: Slowly now, Chip.
text: Belle picks up Chip and brings him up to her mouth. Little
text: Chip finds himself face-to-face with the most beautiful girl
text: he has ever seen. She takes a sip.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Pleased to meet you! Want to see me do
dialog: a trick?
text: Chip blows a huge bubble in his tea cup. It pops loudly.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Chip.
dialog: (to Belle)
dialog: That was a very brave thing you did for
dialog: your father, dear.
text: Madame Garderobe's doors swing open.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Yes. We all think so.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I'm so worried about him. He's never
dialog: been on his own.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Cheer up, my poppet. Things will turn
dialog: out in the end. You'll feel a lot
dialog: better after dinner.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: But he said, "If she doesn't eat with
dialog: me, she doesn't eat at all."
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: People say a lot of things in anger. It
dialog: is our choice whether or not to listen.
dialog: Coming?
text: And Mrs. Potts is out the door. Belle looks to Garderobe.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Go.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - CASTLE - NIGHT
text: The door opens. Lumière races in to the excited staff.
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: They're coming! Final checks,
dialog: everyone, tout de suite!
text: Cogsworth waddles in after him. Plumette flutters nervously.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: No, you don't! If the master finds out
dialog: you violated his orders and fed her, he
dialog: will blame me.
text: Lumiere jumps up onto the sink, navigating sudsy dishes as
text: CHAPEAU scrubs them.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Yes, I will make sure of it. But did
dialog: you see her stand up to him? I am
dialog: telling you, this girl is the one.
dialog: They must fall in love if we are to be
dialog: human again, and they can't fall in
dialog: love if she stays in her room.
text: (looks at a smudged dish)
dialog: Eh, Chapeau, you missed a spot!
text: Lumière tosses the dish back in the sink, skipping onto a
text: passing tea trolley. Cogsworth climbs up in pursuit.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: You know she will never love him.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
text: A broken clock is right two times a
dialog: day, mon ami, and this is not one of
dialog: those times.
text: Lumière leaps onto the table, and uprights a champagne glass.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Stand up straight!
dialog: (to the room)
dialog: It's time to sparkle!
text: He leaps again, onto CUISINIÈR, and sips a spoonful from a
text: bubbling pot.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: I have no taste buds, but I can tell
dialog: this is exquisite.
speaker_heading: CUISINIÈR
dialog: Off! Off me while I work! Pepper,
dialog: get cracking! Salt, shake a leg!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Not so loud! Keep it down!
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Of course, of course. But what is
dialog: dinner without a little... music?
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Music?!
scene_heading: 57 INT. DINING ROOM - CASTLE - MOMENTS LATER 57
text: To Cogsworth's horror, Lumière guides an ambulatory HARPSICHORD
text: into the room. This is CADENZA, our neurotic Italian maestro.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Maestro Cadenza, are you ready?
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: (coy)
dialog: It has been so long since I've
dialog: performed! I can barely even remember
dialog: how...
text: But with an abrupt flourish, Cadenza plays show-offy scales
text: on the ivories until -- PLUNK.
speaker_heading: CADENZA (CONT'D)
text: Another cavity.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Maestro, your wife is upstairs, finding
dialog: it harder and harder to stay awake.
dialog: She's counting on you to help us break
dialog: this curse.
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Then, I shall play through the dental
dialog: pain!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: (whispers to Cadenza)
dialog: But Maestro. Play quietly. Please.
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Quietly? Sotto voce? Of course. Are
dialog: there any other tasteless demands you
dialog: wish to make upon my artistry?
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: No, that's it.
text: Mrs. Potts leads Belle to the end of the long dining table.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: There you are, dear.
text: Lumière LEAPS onto the table. Floating at a high window,
text: Plummette uses a silver platter to turn a shaft of moonlight
text: into a SPOTLIGHT. As Lumière begins "BE OUR GUEST."
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Ma chere, mademoiselle. It is with
dialog: deepest pride and greatest pleasure that
dialog: we welcome you tonight. And now, we
dialog: invite you to relax.
text: Belle sits down in a chair, which moves in, bringing her
text: closer to the table. Lumière motions up to Plumette to
text: steady her shaky spotlight.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Let us pull up a chair... as the dining
text: room proudly presents...
text: Cadenza plays a dramatic scale as a table cloth UNFURLS, and
text: Lumière jumps up and LANDS in a pose. Cadenza ends his scale on
text: the wrong note. Lumière shoots him a look, Cadenza plays the
text: right note, and Lumière turns to Belle and smiles.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: ... your dinner.
dialog: (sings to Belle)
dialog: Be our guest, be our guest
text: The napkins on the place settings rise up and twirl. Chapeau
text: offers Belle a napkin.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Put our service to the test
dialog: Tie your napkin `round your neck, cherie
dialog: And we provide the rest!
text: Spinning quickly, Chapeau presents the following to Belle:
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Soup du jour, hot hors d'oeuvres
dialog: Why we only live to serve
dialog: Try the grey stuff, it's delicious
text: Belle reaches out to try it, but it's gone before she can.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't believe me? Ask the dishes!
text: The hors d'oeuvres plates go off, leaving the dinner dishes to
dialog: levitate and spin.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: They can sing, they can dance
dialog: After all, miss, this is France!
text: A small guillotine on the table drops, slicing the baguette.
text: MENUS fly in overhead, buzzing a disgruntled Cogsworth. Belle
text: reaches up and grabs one.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: And a dinner here is never second best
dialog: Go on unfold your menu
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: LUMIèRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Take a glance and then you'll
dialog: Be our guest, be our guest
scene_heading: LUMIÈRE AND COGSWORTH
dialog: Be our guest!
text: Cogsworth shushes Lumière, and Lumière jabs him back. One by
text: one the kitchen doors swing open, presenting:
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Beef ragout, cheese souffle,
dialog: Pie and pudding en flambé!
text: The fish pie explodes! A piece of cod hits Cogsworth in the
text: face, knocking him over.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: We'll prepare and serve with flair
dialog: A culinary cabaret!
text: Flute glasses fill up with champagne and then break into a Bob
text: Fosse homage. Belle grabs a glass, but Lumière snatches it
text: before she sips.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: You're alone and you're scared
dialog: But the banquet's all prepared!
text: Lumière coaxes the flatware to its feet.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: No one's gloomy or complaining
dialog: While the flatware's entertaining!
text: The flatware hold out a napkin, into which Lumière jumps, like a
dialog: 
text: trampoline. He is launched into the air, swinging between
text: chandeliers a la Cirque du Soleil.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: We tell jokes, I do tricks
dialog: With my fellow candlesticks
scene_heading: CHANDELIER CANDLESTICKS
dialog: And it's all in perfect taste
dialog: That you can bet!
text: Lumière falls and lands back in the middle of the champagne
text: flutes. They rise up around him.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Come on and lift your glass
dialog: You've won your own free pass
dialog: To be our guest
dialog: (to Cogsworth)
dialog: If you're stressed, it's fine dining we
dialog: suggest.
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oui our guest
dialog: Be our guest, be our guest!
text: Cogsworth steps back as Lumière again takes center stage in a
dialog: Martha Graham inspired solo.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Life is so unnerving
dialog: For a servant who's not serving
text: Belle reaches again for food but is stopped by Lumière's
text: melodramatic histrionics. He wraps himself in a napkin for
dialog: the full Martha Graham effect.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: He's not whole
dialog: Without a soul to wait upon
text: Lumière does a `tragic walk' down the table. Reaching the end,
text: he slides down to the floor on the tablecloth, then gathers it
text: around his neck and continues on.
text: Belle tries to stab a bite as the food moves past her, as if on
text: a conveyer belt. Sliding past her, Cogsworth wobbles.
text: On the floor, snow swirls around Lumière. We pull out to see
text: several "ETTES" flinging salt at him to create the effect.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ah, those good old days when we were
dialog: useful
dialog: Suddenly, those good old days are gone
text: Reaching the end of the table, plates dive and spin into neat
dialog: piles --
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Too long we've been rusting
dialog: Needing so much more than dusting
dialog: Needing exercise
dialog: A chance to use our skills
text: -- while Cogsworth lands on Lumière's lap below. Chapeau scoops
dialog: 
text: them both up and drops them back on the table before Belle.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Most days we just lay around the castle
dialog: Flabby, fat and lazy
text: Lumière playfully pokes Cogsworth in his pot belly -- then
dialog: takes a flying leap!
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: You walked in, and oops-a-daisie!
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: 58 INT. KITCHEN - CASTLE - NIGHT 58
text: Mrs. Potts hops along the edge of the sink basin.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: It's a guest, it's a guest!
dialog: Sakes alive, and I'll be blessed!
dialog: Wine's been poured and thank the Lord
dialog: I've had more napkins freshly pressed!
text: She ascents to the top of a tiered, circular pastry table, as
text: napkins twirl around her. Desserts appear and circle Mrs.
text: Potts. Then tea cups enter on the outer circle, moving in
text: the opposite direction.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: With dessert, she'll want tea
dialog: And my dear, that's fine with me!
text: While the cups do their soft shoeing,
dialog: I'll be bubbling, I'll be brewing!
text: From overhead, a la Busby Berkeley, we reveal desserts, teacups,
text: napkins, the floor, everything circling in opposing directions.
text: Mrs. Potts descends, jumping onto her tea trolley -- and notices
text: a smudge of icing on Chip.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: I'll get warm, piping hot
dialog: Heaven's sake, is that a spot?
text: She quickly steams it off him.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Clean it up, we want the company
dialog: impressed!
text: The trolley rolls through the doors --
scene_heading: 59 INT. DINING ROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 59
text: -- and up to Belle. Mrs. Potts pours a cup into Chip.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: We've got a lot to do --
dialog: Is it one lump or two?
dialog: For you our guest!
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: She's our guest!
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: She's our guest!
text: Finally, unable to resist, Cogsworth joins in, pushing
text: Lumière out of the spotlight.
scene_heading: COGSWORTH, LUMIÈRE, MRS. POTTS
dialog: She's our guest!
dialog: 49.
text: Plumette and her "Ettes" descend on a chandelier, which is
text: lowered by Lumière. They dance; a Beyoncé homage.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Be our guest! Be our guest!
dialog: Our command is your request!
dialog: It's years since we had anybody
dialog: Here and we're obsessed!
text: Lumière ties the chandelier rope around Cogsworth, who falls
text: over, causing the light to spin. Plumette dives into a massive
text: punch bowl, leading her "Ettes" into an Esther Williams moment.
speaker_heading: ALL (CONT'D)
dialog: With your meal, with your ease,
dialog: Yes indeed, we aim to please
text: Splashes from the punch bowl launch us into a "Singin' in the
text: Rain" moment, with Lumière dancing under the fountain. The
text: grand finale is pure Bollywood, punctuated by explosions of
text: candy-colored powders.
speaker_heading: ALL (CONT'D)
text: While the candlelight's still glowing,
dialog: Let us help you, we'll keep going --
dialog: Course by... COURSE! One by one!
dialog: Til you shout "Enough, I'm done!"
dialog: Then we'll sing you off to sleep as you
dialog: digest
dialog: Tonight you'll prop your feet up
dialog: But for now let's eat up...
dialog: Be our guest! Be our guest!
dialog: Be our guest! Please! Be our guest!!
text: As the table clears itself, whooshing back into the kitchen,
text: Lumière whirls toward Belle, finally presenting her with --
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Pudding?!
text: Overwhelmed, she laughs.
scene_heading: 60 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 60
text: Mrs. Potts (on her trolley cart) escorts Belle from the dining
dialog: room.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Surely you're as trapped here as I am.
dialog: Don't you ever want to escape?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: The master's not as terrible as he
text: appears. Somewhere deep in his soul,
dialog: there's a prince of a fellow, just
dialog: waiting to be set free.
dialog: 50.
text: Belle takes this in, a valuable piece of the puzzle. She
text: looks up at the massive staircase.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Lumiere mentioned something about the
dialog: West Wing...
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Never you mind about that. Off to bed
dialog: with you, poppet.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Good night.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Nighty-night. Straight to bed!
text: Mrs. Potts moves off as Belle climbs the stairs toward her
text: room. At the top, she hurries up the staircase leading to
text: the west wing.
scene_heading: 63 INT. STAIRCASE - WEST WING - CASTLE - NIGHT 63
text: Belle sticks to the shadows. She walks up to a massive wooden
text: door -- slightly ajar.
scene_heading: 64 INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - NIGHT 64
text: Furniture lies in rubble, curtains are shredded -- evidence of
text: the beast's temper. Wary, Belle investigates when --
text: SHE GLIMPSES EYES PEERING AT HER OFF TO THE SIDE.
text: With a start, Belle wheels to find -- the eyes belong to a royal
text: portrait. The subject seems to be a TEENAGE BOY but his face
text: has been SLASHED BEYOND RECOGNITION.
text: Only the eyes survived. Bright blue. Engaging. Resembling the
text: eyes of THE BEAST. She realizes that this is the "prince of a
dialog: fellow" Mrs. Potts was referring to.
text: Belle leans in to study the painting. A ROYAL FAMILY stands by
text: the castle. The FATHER's image has been slashed. The QUEEN
text: remains pristine. Kind. Beautiful.
text: Belle moves past a large four-poster bed, its faded coverlet
text: gray with dust, like no one has slept in it for years. On
text: the floor, she sees a makeshift bed made of straw, torn bits
text: of fabric and crumpled blankets: the resting place of a
text: nocturnal carnivore.
text: Belle turns and sees the glow coming from the GLASS JAR by an
text: open window leading to the balcony. Inside the jar -- THE
scene_heading: ENCHANTED ROSE.
text: Mesmerized, Belle approaches the rose. She lifts the jar,
text: leaving the rose unprotected. She reaches out to touch the
text: rose. A shadow cuts across Belle's face.
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE!? WHAT DID YOU
dialog: DO TO IT!?
text: The beast bears down on Belle, backing her up. She puts down
text: the bell jar.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: DO YOU REALIZE WHAT YOU COULD HAVE
dialog: DONE!? YOU COULD HAVE DAMNED US ALL!
dialog: GET OUT! GO!
text: Belle runs. The beast turns and covers the rose, panicked and
dialog: protective.
scene_heading: 65,66 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 65,66
text: Lumière and Cogsworth play chess on an upper landing, with
text: Froufrou resting between them.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Checkmate. Again.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Because you cheated. Again.
text: Belle appears, racing down the west wing staircase.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Mademoiselle... what are you doing?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Getting out of here!
text: Cogsworth jumps onto the chess board as Lumiere hops to the
dialog: floor.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Stop!
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Go go, Froufrou!
text: Froufrou jumps up and starts after Belle.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Yes Froufrou, stop her!
text: Belle barrels down the main staircase, Froufrou in close
dialog: pursuit.
text: Mrs. Potts enters from the kitchen, wearing a tea cosy.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: You don't want to go out there!
dialog: 52.
text: At the top of the stairs, Cogsworth sounds a whistle. In quick
text: cuts, WINDOWS drop and SHUTTERS close.
text: Belle hits the bottom of the grand staircase and runs towards
text: the door -- only to watch it bolt itself locked.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Stop her!
text: Froufrou runs in front of Belle to block her exit, and growls.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Who's a good dog?
text: Then suddenly, his growls turn to playful yaps, as he stands
text: on his hind legs and pants playfully.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH (CONT'D)
dialog: What? No, it's not playtime! Bad
dialog: dog! Bad dog!
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: What part of `stop her' don't you
dialog: understand, dog?!
text: Froufrou spins and scrambles outside, scooting through the
text: low postern door within the great front door. In his
dialog: excitement, he's provided Belle with an escape!
text: Belle snatches her cloak from a bewildered Chapeau, and
text: shimmies out through this same `doggie door.'
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Please, don't go! It's dangerous!
text: Mrs. Potts rushes forward but it's too late. A look of dread
text: settles on her face...
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Oh my...
speaker_heading: 67 OMITTED 67
speaker_heading: 68 OMITTED 68
scene_heading: 69 EXT. ENCHANTED WOODS - NIGHT 69
text: HOWL. Philippe's hooves hit the snowy landscape. Belle races
text: through the woods. She looks back to see if the beast followed
text: her. She only sees a glimpse of the castle. She thinks she has
text: escaped. Surely, she has escaped.
text: WOLVES HOWL NEARBY.
text: ANGLE ON PHILIPPE'S MUDDY HOOFPRINT -- a WOLF'S PAW smashes down
text: over the print -- the wolf howls --
dialog: 53.
text: ANGLE ON BELLE -- out of the corner of her eye, she sees SHAPES
text: OF A DOZEN WHITE WOLVES flitting through the trees, closing in
text: on her.
text: Belle forges on -- the wolves are not bothering to hide anymore,
text: they've emerged from the trees to take down their prey --
dialog: closing in fast --
text: -- Belle pushes through the undergrowth to find she has reached
text: a FROZEN POND. Philippe doesn't hesitate. He gallops onto the
text: ice, and across the pond. The sound of ice CRACKING under his
text: hooves is deep and low. And increasing.
text: Philippe's hooves slide on the ice. The wolves close in.
text: Philippe makes it across the pond onto land. But before
dialog: Belle can feel any relief --
text: A WOLF'S JAWS snap at Philippe's thigh. Then another. The
text: horse bucks wildly -- causing Belle to makes a controlled
text: leap onto a snow bank. She seizes a thick branch and wields
text: it as a club -- as the wolves surround her, jaws slavering --
text: Belle swings her club as one wolf lunges at her, its bared
text: teeth like razors. She beats it away. She turns to confront
text: another -- it bites the branch clean out of her hands.
text: Belle turns, looks up -- on a rock promontory, the scarred
text: ALPHA WOLF is about to take a diving leap onto her. It
text: jumps, and she flinches -- but just as the wolf is about to
dialog: makes its horrible landing --
scene_heading: THE BEAST APPEARS --
text: -- and catches it in mid-air! With supernatural force, the
text: beast hurls the wolf across the frozen pond, howling!
text: All the wolves dive on the beast at once, tearing shreds from
text: his cloak. He strikes at them -- wolves scurry, yelping --
text: The oversize ALPHA WOLF climbs onto the beast's back, goes
text: for his neck. The beast slams together the wolves on his
text: arms, dropping them -- then reaches back and seizes the
text: Alpha. WOLF and BEAST snarl inches from each other -- the
dialog: beast squeezes --
text: Then hurls the Alpha into a stone ledge -- CRACK -- knocking him
text: out. The remaining pack retreats in panic, their yelps echoing
text: through the trees.
text: TIGHT ON BELLE -- watching as the beast whimpers in pain. His
text: shoulders slump. He collapses in the snow. This is her chance.
text: Belle could run. She looks past Philippe, to the woods -- to
text: freedom. But then turns back, and slowly approaches the wounded
dialog: 
dialog: beast.
text: Belle covers the beast with her blanket. He stirs. One eye
text: opens.
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: You have to help me... you have to
dialog: stand...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: The beast is slumped across Philippe's saddle. As Belle takes
text: the reins and begins the long walk back to the castle, we RISE
text: into the sky, where we can see the border that separates the
dialog: enchanted woods from the outside world, and...
scene_heading: 70 EXT. WOODS - NIGHT 70
text: WOLVES HOWL. Gaston's carriage moves through the scary woods,
text: LeFou squeezed in back behind Gaston and Maurice.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: No! I'm sure this is the way! Do you
dialog: hear those wolves? That means we're
text: getting very close to the castle.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Look, enough is enough. We have to turn
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Stop! That's it!
text: Maurice points up ahead to the WITHERED TREE that looks like an
scene_heading: ELDERLY PERSON'S CANE -- THE TREE IS STANDING AGAIN, the tunnel
text: of trees now hidden behind it. Maurice hops down from the
dialog: wagon.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: That's the tree. I'm sure of it. Of
dialog: course, it was downed by lightning at
dialog: the time, but now it's been restored
text: to an upright position, through some
dialog: sort of... magic. Or other.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: (sotto to Gaston)
dialog: You really want to marry into this
dialog: family?
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: So that means the castle is definitely
dialog: that way!
text: An angry Gaston steps out and approaches Maurice.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: I'm done playing this game of yours.
dialog: Where is Belle?
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: The beast took her!
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: There are no such things as beasts, or
dialog: talking teacups, or... magic! But there
text: are wolves, frostbite, and starvation.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Deep breaths, Gaston. Deep breaths.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: So why don't we just turn around go back
dialog: to Villeneuve? I'm sure Belle is at
text: home, cooking up a lovely dinner...
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: If you think I've made all this up,
dialog: then why did you offer to help?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Because I want to marry your daughter!
dialog: Now let's go home.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Belle is not at home! She's with the --
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: IF YOU SAY BEAST ONE MORE TIME, I WILL
dialog: FEED YOU TO THE WOLVES!
text: Gaston holds his fist to strike Maurice across the face.
text: LeFou runs over to intervene.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: GASTON! STOP! Breathe. Think happy
dialog: thoughts. Go back to the war. Blood,
dialog: explosions, countless widows...
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Widows...
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Yes, yes, that's it, that's it...
text: LeFou's voice snaps Gaston out of his rage. He puts on that
text: Gaston smile like a Halloween mask.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Please, forgive me, old bean. That's no
dialog: way to talk to my future father-in-law,
dialog: now is it?
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Future father-in-law...? You will never
dialog: marry my daughter.
text: A beat. Without a word, Gaston hits Maurice, knocking him out.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: I saw that coming...
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: 70A EXT. REMOTE FOREST ROAD - NIGHT (LATER) 70A
text: Maurice is now tied to a tree. Gaston secures the knot and
text: walks to the carriage. Darkness has come over Gaston.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: If Maurice won't give me his blessing,
dialog: then he is in my way. Once the wolves
dialog: are finished with him, Belle will have
dialog: no one to take care of her but me.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: For the sake of exhausting all of our
dialog: options, do we maybe want to consider a
dialog: less gruesome alternative?
text: Gaston climbs into the carriage.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Are you coming?
text: LeFou looks back to Maurice, an apology in his eyes. He
text: climbs into the carriage.
text: Gaston and LeFou ride off, leaving Maurice to die.
scene_heading: 71 INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - NIGHT 71
text: The beast lies in his old human bed. Belle dabs a large gash
text: on the beast's arm. The beast bares his fangs and lets out a
dialog: roar.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
text: ROOOOAARRRR! Ow! That hurts!
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: If you held still, it wouldn't hurt as
dialog: much.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: If you hadn't run away, none of this
dialog: would have happened.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Well if you hadn't frightened me, I
dialog: wouldn't have run away.
text: The household staff anxiously watches the battle of words.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Well you shouldn't have been in the
dialog: west wing.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Well you should learn to control your
dialog: temper.
dialog: 57.
text: The beast is momentarily silenced. Belle looks down at the
text: wound she has been dabbing. It's worse than she thought.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Try to get some rest.
text: The beast's breath slows to a low rumble as his eyes slip
dialog: shut.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Thank you, Miss.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: We are eternally grateful.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Why do you care so much about him?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: We've looked after him all his life.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: But he has cursed you somehow.
dialog: (off their silence)
dialog: Why? You did nothing.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: You're quite right there, dear. You
dialog: see, when the master lost his mother,
dialog: and his cruel father took that sweet
dialog: innocent lad and twisted him up to be
dialog: just like him... we did nothing.
text: Belle notes their shame just as we HEAR the first notes of a
text: beautiful melody coming from the ballroom downstairs. This is
text: the beast's lullaby -- "DAYS IN THE SUN."
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Let him sleep.
text: As the staff and Belle exit, the beast stirs. We move from
text: his face, shivering in a fever dream, to discover --
scene_heading: 71A INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - NIGHT 71A
text: The YOUNG PRINCE gazes down sadly.
speaker_heading: YOUNG PRINCE
dialog: Days in the sun
dialog: When my life has barely begun
text: We move around to reveal that he is looking at the pale body
text: of THE QUEEN on her deathbed.
speaker_heading: YOUNG PRINCE (CONT'D)
dialog: Not until my own life is done
dialog: Will I ever leave you
dialog: 58.
text: Behind the prince, a figure approaches: his FATHER. Cruelty
text: written on his face. Placing his large hand on the boy's
text: shoulder, he pulls him out of the room.
scene_heading: 72 INT. CASTLE - BALLROOM/FOYER - NIGHT 72
text: In the gloomy ballroom, Cadenza plays the beautiful melody.
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Will I tremble again
dialog: To my dear one's gorgeous refrain?
text: The melody drifts through the ballroom until we find Lumière and
dialog: 
dialog: Plumette, dancing:
scene_heading: LUMIÈRE &amp; PLUMETTE
dialog: Will you now forever remain
dialog: Out of reach of my arms?
scene_heading: 72AA INT. CASTLE - KITCHEN - NIGHT 72AA
text: Drifting to Mrs. Potts and Chip, as she tucks him into bed in
dialog: the cupboard:
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Oh those days in the sun
dialog: What I'd give to relive just one
dialog: Undo what's done
dialog: And bring back the light
text: The melody wafts up to:
scene_heading: 72A INT. BELLE'S BEDROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 72A
dialog: Madame de Garderobe joins in:
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: O I could sing
dialog: Of the pain these dark days bring
dialog: The spell we're under
dialog: Still it's the wonder of us
dialog: I sing of tonight
text: Belle turns to the window, sings:
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: How in the midst of all this sorrow
dialog: Can so much hope and love endure?
dialog: I was innocent and certain
dialog: Now I'm wiser but unsure
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D) GARDEROBE
dialog: I can't go back into my Days in the past
dialog: childhood Ah those precious days
dialog: One that my father made couldn't last
dialog: secure Oh - hold me closer
dialog: I can feel the change in me
dialog: 
dialog: I'm stronger now but still
dialog: not free
dialog: 
text: From the window, we PAN across to the castle, to the horizon -
text: - where the sun is rising.
speaker_heading: 72B OMITTED 72B
speaker_heading: 72C OMITTED 72C
scene_heading: 73 INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - MORNING 73
text: The beast's eyes are closed as he feels his mother's hand on
text: his head one more time. The whole staff looks on:
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Days in the sun
dialog: Will return - we must believe
dialog: As lovers do
dialog: That days in the sun
dialog: Will come shining through
text: The beast opens his eyes weakly, takes in the low light of
text: sunrise. As his vision adjusts, the silhouetted figure by
text: his bedside is revealed. Not his mother, but Belle. A smile
text: forms on his lips, and he closes his eyes again.
text: In the glass jar, a petal drops as if floating on the melody.
text: Belle crosses to it.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: What happens when the last petal falls?
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: The master remains a beast forever. And
dialog: the rest of us become...
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Antiques.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
text: Knickknacks.
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
text: Lightly used houseware.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Rubbish. We become rubbish.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I want to help you. There must be some
dialog: way to lift the curse.
dialog: 60.
text: The staff exchange looks.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Well, there is one --
text: Lumière candle-smacks him, leaving a waxy smear on his face.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: It's not for you to worry about, lamb.
dialog: We've made our bed and we must lie in
dialog: it.
text: The BEAST opens his eyes, he's been listening. The years of
text: shame and anguish haunt his face as he begins to remember what
dialog: it is to be human.
scene_heading: 74 EXT. REMOTE FOREST ROAD - MORNING 74
text: Maurice sleeps. Suddenly, we hear the branches crack around
dialog: him. The sound gets closer, and just when we think that wolves
dialog: have found Maurice, we see --
text: A HOODED FIGURE emerges from the woods. The figure looks at
text: Maurice, his breathing making fog in the cold. Alarmed, the
text: figure rushes up and pulls down the hood to reveal --
text: AGATHE. The beggar woman.
scene_heading: 75 EXT. AGATHE'S SHELTER - WOODS - DAY 75
text: Agathe, her arm around Maurice, guides him into a shelter in a
text: small clearing. Gently, she lays him down and removes her
text: cloak, spreading it over him for warmth.
text: She pulls a bundle off her back and rifles through it, removes
text: herbs, a mortar and pestle, and expertly whips up a concoction
text: that she brings to Maurice's lips.
speaker_heading: AGATHE
dialog: Drink.
text: He blinks, reviving, as he drinks it down.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Thank you... Agathe.
scene_heading: 76 INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - DAY 76
text: The beast lies in bed, still bandaged.
speaker_heading: BELLE (O.S.)
dialog: Love can transpose to form and
dialog: dignity. Love looks not with the eyes
dialog: but with the mind. And therefore --
text: He opens his eyes to see that Belle isn't reading, she's
text: reciting from memory. He joins in --
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: And therefore is winged Cupid painted
dialog: blind.
text: Belle looks up, surprised.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: So you know Shakespeare?
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I had an expensive education.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Actually, "Romeo and Juliet" is my
dialog: favorite play.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Why is that not a surprise?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Sorry?
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: All that heartache and pining and --
dialog: (a beastly shudder)
dialog: There are so many better things to
dialog: read.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Like what?
text: The beast smiles.
scene_heading: 77 INT. LIBRARY - CASTLE - DAY 77
text: The beast has lead Belle into the biggest grandest private
text: library in all of France. The chamber is vast and lined floor
dialog: to ceiling with books.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Should be something here you can start
dialog: with...
text: He turns to see Belle, speechless.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: It's wonderful.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Oh. Yes, I suppose it is... Well, if
dialog: you like it so much, then it's yours.
text: The beast starts to leave. He is stopped by --
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Have you really read every one of these
dialog: books?
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
text: Not all of them. Some are in Greek.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Was that a joke? Are you making jokes
dialog: now?
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Maybe.
text: Belle shakes her head but is also charmed. The beast turns
text: and strides out.
scene_heading: 78 INT. DINING ROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 78
text: The beast eats at the table, reading a book which sits on a
text: stand. He looks up to see Belle sit at the other end with three
dialog: 
text: books. She picks up her spoon and starts to eat. The beast
text: plants his face in the bowl. Looks up a second later having
text: inhaled the soup, half of which is dripping from his fur. Belle
dialog: 
text: attempts a smile. "SOMETHING THERE" begins.
scene_heading: 78A EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - WOODED GLEN - DAY 78A
text: Belle and the beast cross a stone footbridge. She reads
text: aloud to the patient, who moves tentatively, favoring a
text: wounded leg.
speaker_heading: BELLE
text: The air is blue and keen and cold
text: And in a frozen sheath enrolled
text: The beast stops. Belle, savoring the words, keeps walking.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Each branch, each twig, each blade of
dialog: grass
text: Seems clad miraculously with glass
text: Belle notices that she's walking alone. She turns back, sees
text: the beast staring out soulfully:
speaker_heading: BEAST
dialog: I feel as if I'm seeing it for the
dialog: first time.
text: As she follows his gaze, we reveal a splendidly desolate
text: landscape. The very thing Belle has just described, now
text: spread out before her.
speaker_heading: BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: Is there more?
text: Belle smiles, pleased that for a moment at least he's become
dialog: a fan of poetry. She reads:
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: But in that solemn silence
dialog: Is heard the whisper
dialog: Of every sleeping thing:
dialog: "Look, look at me
dialog: Come wake me up
dialog: For still here I be."
text: Belle meets the beast's eyes. Both suddenly aware of hidden
text: meanings in the poet's words.
scene_heading: 79 EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - DAY 79
text: In the fresh snow, Belle brushes Philippe's coat. The beast
text: looks at Belle -- she nods -- and he pets the horse. Philippe
text: reacts skittishly, causing the beast to withdraw. Belle takes
text: his hand and places it on Philippe. Then, as she turns away --
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: There's something sweet and almost
dialog: kind
dialog: But he was mean and he was coarse and
dialog: unrefined
text: She looks back -- sees the beast petting Philippe.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: And now he's dear and so unsure
dialog: I wonder why I didn't see it there
dialog: before
text: Suddenly, a snowball hits the beast. He turns to see Belle
text: smiling.
text: The beast builds a huge snowball, and hurls it at Belle. It
text: knocks her clean off her feet and into the snow. Off the
text: beast, grinning in delight --
speaker_heading: 80 OMITTED 80
scene_heading: 81 INT. DINING ROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 81
text: Belle reads at her end of the long dining table. She looks up
text: and sees the beast looking at her. "May I?" She nods, goes
text: back to her book. As he walks the length of the table:
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: She glanced this way
dialog: I thought I saw
dialog: And when we touched
dialog: She didn't shudder at my paw
dialog: No, it can't be
dialog: I'll just ignore
dialog: But then she's never looked at me that
dialog: way before
text: The beast sits. He grabs his bowl and slurps down the soup,
text: then catches himself as he sees Belle watching him.
dialog: 64.
text: After a moment, she picks up her bowl and drinks the soup the
text: same way. The beast smiles. They loudly slurp and laugh
dialog: together.
scene_heading: 82 INT. BALLROOM - CASTLE / EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - DAY 82
text: Plumette and several Ettes remove dust bags from the
text: chandeliers, as Belle stands on a balcony, sleeves rolled up.
text: She scrubs a dirty window, causing a beam of sunlight to
text: strike Cadenza. Meanwhile Chapeau mops the floor, cleaning
text: off years of grime, revealing the shiny marble underneath.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: New and a bit alarming
dialog: Who'd have ever thought that this
dialog: could be?
text: Through the cleaned windows she sees the beast outside,
text: walking Philippe -- and talking to him.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: True that he's no Prince Charming
dialog: But there's something in him that I
dialog: simply didn't see!
scene_heading: 83 INT. LIBRARY - CASTLE - DAY 83
text: Belle stands on a ladder, pulling down book after book, and
text: handing them to the beast. The staff watches from the corner.
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: Well, who'd have thought?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Well, bless my soul!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Well, who'd have known?
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Well, who indeed?
text: The towering stack in the beast's arms teeters until the LIBRARY
text: TABLE scoots up behind him, allowing him to set the stack down.
text: The beast nods gratefully, and the wizened GLOBE on the tabletop
text: nods back. As the staff moves away:
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: And who'd have guessed
dialog: They'd come together on their own?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: It's so peculiar, wait and see.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: We'll wait and see!
dialog: A few days more
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: ALL (CONT'D)
dialog: There may be something there that wasn't
dialog: there before.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: You know, perhaps there's something
dialog: there that wasn't there before.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: What, mama?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: There may be something there that wasn't
dialog: there before.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: What is it, what's there?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: I'll tell you when you're older.
text: Chip waits a long beat.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Okay, I'm older!
text: Mrs. Potts laughs.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Oh Chip, you are a one!
scene_heading: 84 EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - COLONNADE - DAY 84
text: Sitting in the beautiful rose garden, the beast looks up from
text: his book as Belle approaches.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: What are you reading?
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Nothing.
text: He hides the book but Belle catches the title.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Guinevere and Lancelot.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Well actually, King Arthur and the
dialog: Round Table. Knights, and men, and
dialog: swords and things...
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: But still... it's a romance.
text: The beast nods, a bit shyly.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: All right. I felt like a change.
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I never thanked you for saving my life.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Well I never thanked you... for not
dialog: leaving me to be eaten by wolves.
text: Belle laughs. A quiet charged moment, which ends with the
text: SHOUTS and LAUGHTER of the servants in the castle. Belle and
text: the beast can't help but smile.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: They know how to have a good time.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Yes. But when I enter the room,
text: laughter dies.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Me, too. The villagers say that I'm a
dialog: "funny girl," but I don't think they
dialog: mean it as a compliment.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I'm sorry. Your village sounds
dialog: terrible.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Almost as lonely as your castle.
text: He turns to her with a melancholy smile. Then, an idea.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: What do you say we run away?
text: Belle is surprised by the suggestion.
scene_heading: 85 INT. LIBRARY - CASTLE - NIGHT 85
text: The beast unlocks a desk cabinet. In it, resting on velvet,
text: its gold-leaf cover faintly glimmering with magic, is a
text: LEATHER BOUND BOOK covered in a thick layer of dust.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Another little "gift" from the
dialog: Enchantress...
text: The beast cracks open the book to reveal AN ANTIQUE WORLD
text: ATLAS. No countries. Just land and sea.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: A book that truly allows you to
dialog: escape.
text: Belle moves closer to find the pen and ink drawing is alive.
text: Waves lap the beaches. Green trees sway in invisible wind.
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: How amazing.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: It was her cruelest trick of all. The
dialog: outside world has no place for a
dialog: creature like me. But it can for you.
text: The beast offers his hand and Belle takes it. He gently
text: moves her hand to the book.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: Think of the place you've most wanted
dialog: to see. First, see it in your mind's
dialog: eye. Now feel it in your heart.
text: Belle nods -- this isn't a difficult decision. The moment
text: her hand hits the page, we ENTER it, SPINNING through
text: celestial flares -- which blur and recombine -- as the lights
text: of Paris. We descend over the city and into...
scene_heading: 86 INT. ARTIST'S GARRET - MONTMARTRE - NIGHT 86
text: ... the top floor of a windmill in Montmartre.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Where did you take us?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Paris.
text: The beast looks out of a window and sees glittering lights.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Oh, I love Paris. What would you like
dialog: to see first? Notre Dame? The Champs-
dialog: Elysées? No? Too touristy?
text: He turns to find Belle silent. Her eyes brimming with tears.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: It's so much smaller than I imagined.
text: The beast watches Belle walk through her childhood home...
text: the artist's garret that Maurice recreated in his signature
text: music box. Abandoned years ago, the room is crumbling.
text: Belle finds the remains of her father's easel. A tarnished
text: wall mirror. Her own broken crib.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: This is the Paris of my childhood
dialog: These were the borders of my life
text: In this crumbling dusty attic
dialog: Where an artist loved his wife
dialog: I thought that I would find an answer
dialog: Here where his heart has always lived
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
text: Now I see it's empty and abandoned
dialog: Easy to remember
dialog: Harder to move on
dialog: Knowing that the Paris of my childhood
dialog: Is gone
text: Belle notices something tucked into a corner of the crib.
text: She pries it loose. It is a BABY'S RATTLE carved into the
text: shape of a rose. The beast focuses on it.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: What happened to your mother?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: That's the only story Papa could never
dialog: bring himself to tell. And I knew
dialog: better than to ask...
text: As she speaks, the beast notices something on a chair. The
text: dark, pointed mask of a plague doctor. He looks up.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Plague.
text: The revelation lands on Belle's face. She looks around.
scene_heading: IN QUICK TIGHT SHOTS ---
text: Belle glimpses what must have happened. A DOCTOR stands in
text: the doorway, his face covered by the mask.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: You must leave. Now.
text: A bag is hastily packed, Belle's YOUNGER FATHER (barely seen)
text: taking only what is necessary. He stops to gaze at Belle's
text: MOTHER, who lies on her deathbed, surrounded by medicines.
speaker_heading: BELLE'S MOTHER
dialog: Quickly... before it takes her too...
text: She closes her eyes, turns away.
text: Maurice picks up the baby... who drops her beloved rose-
text: shaped rattle. Belle's mother touches it to her lips as
text: husband and child disappear.
text: BACK TO THE PRESENT
text: Belle stares at the rattle.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I am sorry I ever called your father a
dialog: thief.
text: Belle lifts her head, her wet eyes look at him.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Let's go home.
text: She means the castle. The beast nods, takes her hand.
scene_heading: 87 EXT. COUNTRY INN - EVENING 87
text: Wind and rain dance in front of the inn. MUSIC and DRUNKEN
text: LAUGHTER inside.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Wow, this is some storm. At least
dialog: we're not tied to a tree in the middle
dialog: of nowhere, right? You know it's not
dialog: too late, we could just go get him...
text: Gaston doesn't react.
speaker_heading: LEFOU (CONT'D)
dialog: It's just, every time I close my eyes,
dialog: I picture Maurice stranded out there.
dialog: And then when I open them, he's --
scene_heading: 88 INT. COUNTRY INN - EVENING 88
text: They enter and see MAURICE surrounded by Pere Robert and Jean
dialog: the potter.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: (excitedly)
dialog: Maurice!
text: LeFou realizes he shouldn't be happy and tamps down his
text: smile. Maurice and Gaston lock eyes. Gaston quickly
text: assesses the situation.
speaker_heading: TAVERN KEEPER
dialog: Gaston, did you try to kill Maurice?
dialog: Just when we think Gaston might run or fight or deny, he smiles
dialog: warmly.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Oh, Maurice! Thank heavens. I've spent
dialog: the last five days trying to find you.
text: Suddenly, the villagers shift their gaze to Maurice.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: No! You tried to kill me! You left
dialog: me for the wolves!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Maurice, it's one thing to rave about
dialog: your delusions. It's another to accuse
dialog: me of attempted murder.
dialog: 70.
text: Gaston's argument lands. The gentle Maurice feels the room
text: slipping away from him.
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: Maurice, do you have any proof of what
dialog: you're saying?
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Ask Agathe! She rescued me!
dialog: Before Agathe can speak --
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Agathe? You'd hang your accusation on
dialog: the testimony of a filthy hag?
dialog: (to Agathe)
dialog: No offense, Agathe.
text: Agathe raises an eyebrow - but says nothing.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Monsieur LeFou! He was there. He saw
dialog: it all.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Me?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: You're right. Don't take my word for
dialog: it.
text: He puts his arm around LeFou and pulls him close.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: LeFou, my dearest companion, did I,
dialog: your oldest friend and most loyal
dialog: compatriot, try to kill the father of
dialog: the only woman I've ever loved?
text: All eyes turn to LeFou, who is clearly torn.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: It's a complicated question on a
dialog: number of accounts, but... no. No, he
dialog: did not.
text: The crowd reacts. Maurice is crestfallen. Gaston has won.
text: Maurice lunges at Gaston -- who catches his flying fist, easily
text: subduing him.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Maurice, it pains me to say this, but
dialog: you've become a danger to yourself and
dialog: others. No wonder Belle ran away. You
dialog: need help, sir. A place to heal your
dialog: troubled mind.
dialog: 71.
text: Gaston signals to Tom, Dick, and Stanley -- and Maurice turns to
text: see them block the exit. Gaston places his large hand on
text: Maurice's shoulder -- and squeezes. Maurice winces.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Everything's going to be fine.
scene_heading: 89 INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - EVENING 89
text: The beast sits in a tub -- far too small for him. There's
text: shadow-play on the curtain.
speaker_heading: BEAST
dialog: I saw her in the ballroom, and I said,
dialog: well, you're making this so beautiful,
dialog: we should have a dance tonight. I never
dialog: thought she'd actually say yes! What
dialog: was I thinking?!
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: No, Master, it's perfect! The rose has
dialog: only four petals left. Which means
dialog: tonight... you must tell her how you
dialog: feel.
text: The beast stands, appearing above the curtain, sopping wet.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I feel like a fool. She will never love
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Do not be discouraged.
text: The beast shakes his coat dry like a dog. The spray
text: extinguishes Lumière's candles.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: She is the one.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I wish you'd stop saying that!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: The beast plops into his a seat in front of the mirror.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
text: There is no one.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: You care for her, don't you? Well
text: then, woo her with beautiful music and
dialog: romantic candlelight...
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: Yes, and when the moment's just
dialog: right...
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: But how will I know?
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: You will feel slightly nauseous.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Don't worry, master, you'll do fine.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Just stop being a coward and tell
dialog: Belle how you feel. And if you don't,
dialog: I promise you'll be drinking cold tea
dialog: for the rest of your life.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
text: In the dark.
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
text: Covered in dust.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
text: Dark and very very dusty.
dialog: Off the beast, taking this in --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: 89A A brief MONTAGE, as the castle staff give the beast a very
speaker_heading: 89A
dialog: bad makeover.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Start with the hair! Women love nice
dialog: hair.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: I'll take the fingers and toes!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Chapeau, brush those teeth!
text: Chapeau wields scissors and a brush as Mrs. Potts pours hot
text: water into Chip. The beast is pushed and pulled, primped and
text: snipped. His fingers are dipped into Chip, his nails buffed
text: by Mrs. Potts' steam, as Lumière climbs onto his horns.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Dip dip, snip snip...
text: Plumette powders the beast's face --
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: Eyes closed, poof poof!
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: And the pièce de résistance...
dialog: 73.
text: Chapeau places one of the Prince's old wigs on the beast.
text: Plumette pecks his cheek with a beauty mark. The beast spins in
dialog: 
text: his chair to see himself in the mirror, and -- he's totally
text: ridiculous. The staff, dejected, takes in its handiwork.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: OK, I can fix this!
scene_heading: 90 INT. BELLE'S BEDROOM - CASTLE - EVENING 90
text: Garderobe finishes dressing Belle.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
text: Beautiful. But something is missing.
text: Garderobe looks up. There's dust around the gilding that glows
text: in the moonlight. A moment of inspiration.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ahh, yes. The finishing touch.
text: Garderobe sweeps her arm, and the gold dust magically whooshes
text: down, settling on Belle's gown, and completing it.
scene_heading: 91 INT. GRAND STAIRCASE - CASTLE - NIGHT 91
text: Belle is breathtaking as she is revealed on the upper
dialog: landing.
text: Mustering his courage, the beast descends from the west wing.
text: She gazes over at the beast, who looks resplendent. She sees
text: him in a new light.
text: "BEAUTY AND THE BEAST" begins. From the bottom of the
text: staircase, Mrs. Potts watches with Chip --
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Tale as old as time
dialog: True as it can be
dialog: Barely even friends
text: Then somebody bends unexpectedly
text: The beast and Belle meet on the center landing and descend the
text: staircase. Arm in arm, they enter --
scene_heading: 92 INT. BALLROOM - CASTLE - NIGHT 92
text: -- the absolutely resplendent ballroom. It has been cleaned and
dialog: 
text: scrubbed to its former glory. The great windows offer a
text: magnificent view of the starry night.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Just a little change
dialog: Small to say the least
dialog: Both a little scared
dialog: Neither one prepared
dialog: Beauty and the Beast
dialog: 74.
text: As the music rises, Belle bows. The beast bows in return. She
text: offers him her hands -- and nervously, he takes them. They
text: begin to dance, gliding across the ballroom --
text: CAMERA sweeps up to see CARVED INSTRUMENTAL FIGURES --
text: VIOLIN, VIOLAS, HARP -- which have come to life and are
text: playing accompaniment with CADENZA -- sparkling with polish.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Ever just the same
dialog: Ever a surprise
dialog: Ever as before
dialog: Ever just as sure
dialog: As the sun will rise
dialog: Tale as old as time
dialog: Tune as old as song
dialog: Bittersweet and strange
dialog: Finding you can change
dialog: Learning you were wrong
text: ANGLE ON BEAUTY AND THE BEAST -- in this moment, nothing in the
text: world exists except each other. Despite his bulk, the beast is
text: careful, gentle, graceful. The lights in the ballroom grow dim
text: as he lifts her, spinning. Belle is swept away.
text: ANGLE ON THE HOUSEHOLD STAFF -- watching in mounting hope and
text: excitement. On top of Cadenza, Lumière puts an arm around
text: Cogsworth, pulling him closer.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Certain as the sun
text: Rising in the East
dialog: Tale as old as time
dialog: Song as old as rhyme
dialog: Beauty and the Beast
text: The lights come back up as the terrace doors open, allowing
text: Belle and the beast to step outdoors.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Tale as old as time
dialog: Song as old as rhyme
dialog: Beauty and the Beast
text: Chip nuzzles his mother, as Belle and the beast move out to:
scene_heading: 93 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - NIGHT 93
text: Belle and the beast stand together under the stars.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I haven't danced in years. I'd almost
dialog: forgotten the feeling.
dialog: Mustering his courage --
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: It's foolish, I suppose, for a
dialog: creature like me to hope that one day
dialog: he might earn your affection.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I don't know...
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Really? So you think you could be
dialog: happy here?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Could anyone be happy if they're not
dialog: free?
text: She gazes wistfully toward the forest.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: My father taught me to dance. I used
dialog: to step on his toes a lot.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: You must miss him.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Very much.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: (thinks, decides)
dialog: Would you like to see him?
scene_heading: 94 INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - NIGHT 94
text: Belle stares into the beast's hand mirror.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I'd like to see my father.
text: A glow of magic. When it clears Belle sees Maurice -- being
text: manhandled in the village square! He looks terrified.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Papa! What are they doing to him?!
text: The beast reacts to her suffering. A moment of choice.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: (pained)
dialog: You must go to him.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: What did you say?
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: You must go to him. No time to waste.
dialog: 76.
text: Belle looks at the beast as she has never done before -- with
text: gratitude and appreciation. She moves to return the mirror.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: No. Keep it with you. And you'll
dialog: always have a way to look back on me.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Thank you.
text: She rushes out.
scene_heading: 94A INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 94A
text: Belle runs down the grand staircase towards the door. She
text: stops, seeing Chapeau. He bows to her, silently, sadly.
text: Choking back tears, she is gone.
text: Chapeau looks up to the landing, and sees Mrs. Potts standing
text: there, watching. Heartbroken.
scene_heading: 94B INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE 94B
text: The beast unclasps his beautiful coat and lets it fall to the
text: ground. Cogsworth enters, eager for news.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Well, master, I may have had my doubts,
text: but everything is moving like clockwork.
dialog: True love really does win the day!
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I let her go.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: You... WHAT!?
text: Lumière and Plumette enter behind Cogsworth, followed by Mrs.
dialog: Potts.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Master... how could you do that?
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I had to.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: But why?
text: The beast doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Because he loves her.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Then why are we not human?
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: (angry)
dialog: Because she doesn't love him! And now,
dialog: it's too late.
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: But she might still come back --
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: No. I've set her free. I'm sorry I
dialog: couldn't do the same for all of you.
text: He turns away, unable to face them.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: Now go. Our time is almost past.
text: The staff retreats. As "EVERMORE" begins, the beast pulls on
text: a dark cape.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: I was the one who had it all
dialog: I was the master of my fate
dialog: I never needed anybody in my life
dialog: I learned the truth too late
scene_heading: 95 INT./EXT. TURRETS - CASTLE - NIGHT 95
text: He steps onto the balcony of his lair. From his POV, we see
text: Belle mounting Philippe on the castle grounds below.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I'll never shake away the pain
text: I close my eyes but she's still there
dialog: I let her steal into my melancholy
dialog: heart
dialog: It's more than I can bear
text: Belle sets off and the beast begins to climb the castle
dialog: turrets.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: Now I know she'll never leave me
text: Even as she runs away
dialog: She will still torment me, calm me,
dialog: hurt me, move me come what may
text: The beast climbs higher and higher, to keep Belle in sight as
text: she gets further and further away.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: Wasting in my lonely tower
text: Waiting by an open door
dialog: I'll fool myself she'll walk right in
dialog: And be with me for evermore
text: The beast climbs, Belle riding, until he reaches the highest
text: turret of the castle.
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: I rage against the trials of love
text: I curse the fading of the light
dialog: Though she's already flown so far
dialog: beyond my reach
dialog: She's never out of sight
dialog: Now I know she'll never leave me
text: Even as she fades from view
dialog: She will still torment me, be part of
dialog: everything I do
dialog: Wasting in my lonely tower
text: Waiting by an open door
dialog: I'll fool myself she'll walk right in
text: And as the long long nights begin
dialog: I'll think of all that might have been
dialog: Waiting here for evermore
text: The beast stands at the edge of the turret as Belle finally
text: disappears through the castle gates.
scene_heading: 96 EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - SQUARE - NIGHT 96
text: A horse-drawn asylum wagon thunders into the square where
text: Maurice is surrounded by taunting villagers. The eerie
text: driver, MONSIEUR D'ARQUE, steps out as Tom, Dick and Stanley
text: throw Maurice into his cage on wheels. Villagers approach
text: the wagon like 18th century rubberneckers.
text: Gaston leans into the wagon. The gathering crowd is just loud
dialog: enough to mask a private plea to Maurice...
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Have you ever seen the inside of a mad
dialog: house, Maurice? You wouldn't last a
dialog: week. Just give me your daughter's
dialog: hand, and I'll set you free.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Never.
text: Gaston clenches his jaw and locks the door with a CLANK.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Take him away!
text: The wagon begins to move. The rubberneckers watch the wagon
text: until they are silenced by a loud...
speaker_heading: BELLE (O.S.)
speaker_heading: STOP!
text: Belle's voice cuts through the crowd. They turn and gape at --
text: BELLE, DAZZLING, IN HER EVENING GOWN.
text: The crowd parts before her as she dismounts Philippe and
text: moves to the wagon. They whisper as she passes --
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: VILLAGERS
dialog: "Belle..." "Where did she come from?"
dialog: "Is that Belle..." "Look at that
dialog: dress..."
text: Gaston stares, slack-jawed, unable to believe his eyes. We
text: linger on the jealous village lasses, the puzzled Jean, the
text: confused LeFou, the foul-tempered Clothilde, the bewildered
text: Pere Robert, and in the shadows... Agathe.
text: Belle fearlessly strides right in front of the wagon. The
text: horses jump up, startled. Belle runs to the locked door.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Belle? I thought I'd lost you!
text: Belle sees her father injured on the floor of the wagon.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Open this door! He's hurt!
text: Monsieur d'Arque climbs down to calm her.
speaker_heading: MONSIEUR D'ARQUE
dialog: I'm afraid we can't do that, miss. But
dialog: we'll take very good care of him.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: My father's not crazy! Gaston...
dialog: Tell him!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Belle, you know how loyal I am to your
dialog: family, but your father has been making
dialog: some unbelievable claims.
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: It's true, Belle. He's been raving
text: about a beast in a castle.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I have just come from the castle and
dialog: there is a beast!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: We all admire your devotion to your
dialog: father, but you'd say anything to free
dialog: him. Your word is hardly proof.
text: Belle pulls out the magic mirror from her sash.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: You want proof? SHOW ME THE BEAST!
text: In the mirror, the beast sits slumped against a turret wall.
text: The villagers gasp. Gaston's face registers shock.
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: There is your proof!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: This is sorcery!
text: Gaston snatches the mirror from Belle and holds it up to the
dialog: villagers.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Look at this beast. Look at his fangs,
text: his claws.
text: The villagers recoil in fright.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: No, don't be afraid. He is gentle and
dialog: kind.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: The monster has put her under a spell!
dialog: If I didn't know better, I'd say she
dialog: even cared for him.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: He's not a monster, Gaston. You are.
dialog: (appeals to everyone)
dialog: The beast would never hurt anyone.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: I have heard of the effects of dark
dialog: magic, but never seen it with my own
dialog: eyes before! This is a threat to our
dialog: very existence!
text: Raucous cries of "Gaston Gaston Gaston!" rise. Gaston holds
text: the mirror up.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: (to the thugs)
dialog: We can't have her running off to warn
dialog: the beast. Lock her up too.
text: Tom, Dick and Stanley strong-arm Belle into the wagon with
dialog: her father.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: This isn't over Gaston, you'll see!
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Gaston, with all due respect --
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: DO YOU WANT TO BE NEXT? Fetch my
dialog: horse.
dialog: 81.
text: Gaston hops onto the back of the wagon and addresses the
text: crowd. The "MOB SONG" begins as we move through the
dialog: frightened villagers --
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: That creature will curse us all if we
dialog: don't stop him! Well, I say we KILL
dialog: THE BEAST!
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: We're not safe until he's dead
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: He'll come stalking us at night
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: Set to sacrifice our children
dialog: To his monstrous appetite!
speaker_heading: CLOTHILDE
dialog: He'll wreak havoc on our village
dialog: If we let him wander free!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: So it's time to take some action, boys
dialog: It's time to follow me!
text: Gaston grabs a TORCH from a villager and tosses it into a barrel
text: of pitch. Flames rise to the sky.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
text: Through the mist, through the wood
text: Through the darkness and the shadows
dialog: It's a nightmare but it's one exciting
dialog: ride
text: Gaston lights Clothilde's torch, then clasps the shoulder of
text: Monsieur d'Arque, who watches helplessly as his asylum wagon
text: horses are commandeered by the mob.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Say a prayer, then we're there
text: At the drawbridge of a castle
dialog: And there's something truly terrible
dialog: inside
dialog: It's a beast, he's got fangs razor
dialog: sharp ones
text: Massive paws, killer claws for the
dialog: feast
dialog: Hear him roar, see him foam
dialog: But we're not coming home
dialog: `Til he's dead, good and dead...
dialog: KILL THE BEAST!
text: Some villagers seize shovels, pitchforks, axes. Some light
text: torches in the pitch. Others wrench a boar's head PIKE STAFF
text: from outside the country inn. Pere Robert tries to calm the
text: frenzy but the force of the mob pushes him back.
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: MOB
dialog: Light your torch, mount your horse!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Screw your courage to the sticking place
speaker_heading: MOB
dialog: We're counting on Gaston to lead the
dialog: way
dialog: 
scene_heading: 97 EXT. WOODS - NIGHT 97
text: Gaston and LeFou crash into the woods at a full gallop.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Call it war
dialog: Call it threat
dialog: You can bet they all will follow
dialog: For in times like this they'll do just
dialog: as I say
dialog: LeFou's doubts are growing:
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: There's a beast
dialog: Running wild there's no question
dialog: But I fear
dialog: The wrong monster's released
speaker_heading: MOB
dialog: Sally forth, tally ho
dialog: Grab your sword, grab your bow
dialog: Praise the Lord and here we go!
text: Gaston holds up the mirror.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Show me the castle!
text: IN THE MIRROR -- Gaston sees the hidden path to the castle.
scene_heading: 100 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 100
text: Plumette's head rests on Lumière's shoulder. Mrs. Potts nuzzles
dialog: Chip.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
text: At least he has finally learned to love.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: A lot of good that does us if she
dialog: doesn't love him in return.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: No. This is the first time I've had any
dialog: real hope she would.
dialog: 83.
text: ANGLE ON CHIP -- he hears a distant sound -- the rumble of
text: MARCHING BOOTS -- puzzled, he hops to the window embrasure --
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Did you hear that, mama? Is it her!?
dialog: Is she coming back?!
text: The staff and Froufrou jump up, excited, and move to the window.
text: They see torches in the distance.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Could it be?
text: They look through the glass, distorted with frost, as the mob
text: moves through the garden. Lumière warms the windowpane with his
dialog: flame to see more clearly.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Sacrebleu! Invaders.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Ruffians!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Well, there you go. So much for true
dialog: love. Man the barricades, and hold
dialog: fast!
text: They hop down from the embrasure.
scene_heading: 102 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 102
text: Lumière, Cogsworth, Mrs. Potts, Chip, Plumette and Chapeau stand
text: at the front door, forming a sad barricade.
speaker_heading: CASTLE STAFF
text: Hearts ablaze, banners high
dialog: We go marching into battle --
dialog: Unafraid although the danger just
dialog: increased
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Move aside!
text: Cadenza crab-walks in from the ballroom, standing vertically and
text: propping himself against the door. The others gather around
dialog: him.
scene_heading: 103 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - NIGHT 103
text: The mob hauls their boar's head battering ram up to the door.
speaker_heading: MOB
dialog: Raise the flag, sing the song
dialog: Here we come, we're fifty strong
dialog: And fifty Frenchmen can't be wrong
dialog: Let's kill the beast!
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: 103A INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 103A
text: CRASH! The battering ram breaks through the postern door,
text: which falls out of the door frame.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: We need help!
text: He lopes towards the staircase.
scene_heading: 105 INT. ASYLUM WAGON - VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - NIGHT 105
text: Belle gazes out the prison bars, sees d'Arque pacing by the
text: fountain. She whispers to Maurice --
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I have to warn the beast --
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Warn him? How did you get away from
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: He let me go, papa. He sent me back
dialog: to you.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: I don't understand.
text: She holds up the rose-shaped rattle. Maurice recognizes it
dialog: immediately.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: He took me there. I know what
dialog: happened to maman.
text: Maurice takes the rattle. Stunned.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Then you know I had to leave her
dialog: there. I had to protect you. I've
dialog: always tried to protect you... too
dialog: much, perhaps...
text: He stops, eyes filled with tears.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I understand.
text: She takes his hand and kisses it.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Will you help me now?
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: It's dangerous.
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Yes. Yes it is.
text: Maurice sees the courage and determination in her eyes. And
text: his own eyes light up with an idea.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Of course I could try to pick the
dialog: lock. After all, it's only gears and
dialog: springs. But I would need something
dialog: long and sharp --
text: He stops as Belle, a step ahead, removes and hands him one of
text: her long hairpins.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Like that. Perfect.
text: Maurice gets to work.
scene_heading: 104 EXT. HIGHEST TURRET - CASTLE - NIGHT 104
text: Cogsworth hops up the spiral staircase and out onto the
text: turret. He spots the beast, perched among the gargoyles.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Pardon me, master. I'm sorry to
dialog: disturb you, but --
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
text: She's not coming back.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: No... the castle is under attack!
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: It doesn't matter now. Just let them
dialog: come.
scene_heading: 106 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - NIGHT 106
text: The battering ram smashes against the door.
speaker_heading: MOB
dialog: Kill the beast! Kill the beast!
scene_heading: 107 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 107
text: The door is giving way, the mob is too strong.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: This isn't working!
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: I know what to do.
dialog: 86.
scene_heading: 108 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - NIGHT 108
text: The battering ram smashes again.
speaker_heading: MOB
dialog: Kill the beast! Kill the beast!
scene_heading: 109 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 109
text: The castle staff has now vanished, their barricade dismantled.
text: A series of bolts on the door slide open one by one, top to
text: bottom. The door unlocking itself...
scene_heading: 110 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - NIGHT 110
text: The battering ram smashes the door one last time --
speaker_heading: MOB
dialog: Kill the beast! Kill the beast!
text: The door swings open easily and the mob tumbles inside, to find:
scene_heading: 111 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 111
text: It's EMPTY. Met by eerie silence, Gaston and the mob cautiously
text: enter. The door barely hangs on its hinges.
text: Villagers hold up torches. The flickering light reveals
text: FURNITURE. Chairs. A coat rack. A feather duster. A
text: candelabra. A tea pot and teacup. A harpsichord.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Are you not the least bit concerned that
dialog: this castle might be haunted?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Don't lose your nerve, LeFou.
text: Gaston looks into the mirror. ANGLE ON LeFou -- he notices
text: Mrs. Potts. Brings his torch close to study her.
text: ANGLE ON THE MOB -- among them, Jean the potter stares at the
dialog: eerie castle foyer --
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: This place seems familiar... like I've
dialog: been here before...
text: Gaston approaches the west wing stairs. LeFou brings his face
text: down to the tea pot and teacup.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: You must be the talking teacup. And
dialog: you must be his grandmother.
text: Mrs. Potts' EYES open. Furious.
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Grand-mother? ATTACK!
text: LeFou jumps back. ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE as the furniture comes
text: alive. Chairs kick the shins of several villagers. Plumette
text: feathers villagers' faces furiously, causing them to have
text: sneezing fits. As other villagers funnel in, the "Lend-a-Hand"
text: lights outside the door bonk several of them on the head.
dialog: They're alive after all.
text: Chapeau spins Gaston around and is about to land a blow when
text: GASTON GRABS LEFOU and puts him in the line of fire. LeFou
text: becomes a human punching bag as Cadenza approaches and rears
text: up on his hind legs. His shadow falls across Gaston, who
text: dives out of the way -- leaving LeFou exposed.
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Gaston!
text: Cadenza comes crashing down on LeFou, squashing him flat.
text: Gaston looks down at his friend.
speaker_heading: LEFOU (CONT'D)
dialog: (weak, muffled)
dialog: Gaston... help...
text: Gaston looks from LeFou to the enchanted mirror, then to the
text: grand staircase.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Sorry, old friend. It's hero time.
text: Gaston rushes up the staircase. Lefou passes out.
scene_heading: 112 INT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - NIGHT 112
text: Monsieur d'Arque paces in the square, when he notices the
text: door to the asylum wagon is ajar. He runs to the wagon and
text: flings open the doors, only to find it empty. D'Arque slams
text: the doors shut -- and there's Maurice, smiling beside him.
speaker_heading: MAURICE
dialog: Hello. Oh, I believe this is yours.
text: Maurice casually hands the wagon's padlock to Monsieur
text: d'Arque -- just as Belle rides past on Philippe! As she
text: charges out of the village gates, she tosses her ball gown to
dialog: the ground.
text: Maurice waves to her proudly, then turns back to d'Arque.
speaker_heading: MAURICE (CONT'D)
dialog: She's very headstrong. Do you have
dialog: children?
dialog: Off d'Arque's confusion --
speaker_heading: 113 OMITTED 113
dialog: 88.
scene_heading: 117 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 117
text: LeFou, bruised but alive, opens his eyes, sits up -- when
text: Plumette furiously begins feathering his face.
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: No one to protect you now, eh?!
text: LeFou swats -- and Plumette flies away, laughing.
scene_heading: 119 INT. TURRET STAIRCASE - CASTLE - NIGHT 119
text: Gaston finds himself at the landing of two staircases.
text: Unsure which one leads to the beast, he holds up the mirror,
text: which illuminates the right way. Gaston bounds up them.
scene_heading: 120 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT 120
text: Chip rapidly fires saucers at attackers, counting them off as
text: he dispatches them with glee.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: One! Two! Three! Four! Five!
text: Above, Cogsworth looks down from the balcony, a tinhorn
text: general surveying the battlefield.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Good show, Chip my boy!
text: Just then, a platoon of books arrives on the large table from
text: the library, battle-ready.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH (CONT'D)
dialog: Excellent! The infantry's arrived.
dialog: Now go and teach them a lesson!
text: The books rocket down into the fray, thwacking villager after
dialog: villager.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH (CONT'D)
dialog: Yes, those are called books, you third-
dialog: rate musketeers!
text: This draws the attention of Tom, Dick and Stanley. Cogsworth
dialog: shudders --
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, I'm off!
text: -- and jumps down from the balustrade, as they bound up the
text: stairs. They face off against Cogsworth, and he backs up
dialog: quickly.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH (CONT'D)
dialog: Ah, terribly sorry, pardon me, I'm
dialog: just a clock!
dialog: 89.
text: Suddenly, Garderobe leaps out, blocking the brutes' path, and
text: unfurls her fabric, wrapping them up.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Yes, that's it... put it on... pretty
dialog: little boys!
text: Tom and Dick look at each other and shriek, horrified at their
text: girly make-overs. Stanley, however, doesn't seem to mind his
text: new look. Garderobe cackles.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE (CONT'D)
dialog: 121 Go! Be free! Be free! Be FREE! 121
scene_heading: 122 EXT. WOODS - NIGHT 122
text: Belle on Philippe. She whips past the withered tree and down
text: the path toward the castle grounds.
speaker_heading: 124 OMITTED 124
speaker_heading: 124A OMITTED 124A
speaker_heading: 124B OMITTED 124B
scene_heading: 126 INT. FOYER - BALCONY - CASTLE - NIGHT 126
text: From the balcony, Mrs. Potts leaps onto a chandelier --
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: How do you take your tea?! Piping
dialog: hot?! Or boiling?!
text: -- and douses villagers below with boiling water. She looks
text: down -- seeing Jean the potter -- and gasps.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Mister Potts?!
text: Suddenly, Mrs. Potts slips and drops down towards the floor.
text: Jean the potter looks on in confusion. Chip looks on in
dialog: terror.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Mama!
text: But just as she's about to shatter, she is caught by a pair
text: of human hands. Mrs. Potts gazes up at -- LEFOU, who seems
text: as surprised as she does.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Oh! Thank you.
text: Suddenly, two villagers charge at LeFou from either side.
text: LeFou ducks, the villagers wallop one another, Mrs. Potts
text: spits hot water in their faces, and LeFou punches one out to
dialog: finish the job.
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Nicely handled!
speaker_heading: LEFOU
dialog: Well I used to be on Gaston's side,
dialog: but we're in a bad place right now.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: You're too good for him anyway...
text: LeFou nods, emotional.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Shall we get back to it, then?!
text: Below, Cadenza bucks and rages against villagers, besting
text: them repeatedly as he plays elaborate trills.
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Such sweet music! Ha ha, I'll play
dialog: you like a concerto!
text: Clothilde watches this, and seethes.
speaker_heading: CLOTHILDE
dialog: (points to Cadenza)
dialog: Silence that harpsichord!
text: Clothilde's cry rallies a group of villagers, who raise their
text: axes to turn maestro Cadenza into firewood.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Maestro!
text: Cadenza looks up to see her.
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Darling! At last!
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: (shock becomes rage)
dialog: I'm coming, my love! That's it! The
dialog: fat lady is singing!
text: Garderobe belts out a deafening high note and throws her
text: massive girth off the balcony, sending Clothilde and the
text: villagers below scattering. She lands with a graceful THUD.
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Bravissima!
text: Before the villagers can retaliate, Cadenza's "teeth" shoot
text: out of his mouth like machine gun rounds. BAM BAM BAM!
text: Lumière runs around with gunpowder trail, creating a line of
text: firecracker explosions that send villagers scattering.
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Watch your toes!
text: In the chaos, we find Agathe, moving quietly through the
text: villagers and up the stairs. What is she up to?
text: As villagers pour out the doors, Lumière and Cogsworth meet
text: at the base of the stairs.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Bon voyage! Safe trip home!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: And stay out!
scene_heading: 127 EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - NIGHT 127
text: Belle rides Philippe towards the castle. She kicks his
text: flanks and they double their speed.
scene_heading: 129 EXT. HIGHEST TURRET - CASTLE - NIGHT 129
text: Gaston steps slowly up onto the beast's turret. The beast
text: senses his presence, turns. They lock eyes. Gaston cocks
text: his pistol.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Hello, beast. I am Gaston. Belle sent
dialog: me.
scene_heading: 130 INT. TURRET STAIRCASE - CASTLE - NIGHT 130
text: Belle races up the stairs to the turret.
scene_heading: 131 EXT. HIGHEST TURRET - CASTLE - NIGHT 131
text: With no hope left, the beast turns away from Gaston, whose
text: finger tightens on the trigger.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Were you in love with her? Did you
dialog: honestly think she'd want you?
text: He fires. The beast drops over the edge.
text: On the turret below, his claws make contact with the slanted
text: rooftop and break his fall. He hugs the rooftop, heaving.
text: Gaston looks down over the edge of the turret. He pulls his
text: crossbow and reaches back over his shoulder to draw an arrow
text: from his quiver -- but there's nothing there.
text: Gaston spins to see Belle, and his arrows gripped in her
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: GASTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Belle?
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Where is he?!
text: With that, Belle snaps Gaston's arrows over her knee, and
text: tosses them away. Gaston grabs her arm.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: When we return to the village, you will
dialog: marry me, and the beast's head will hang
dialog: on our wall!
speaker_heading: BELLE
speaker_heading: NEVER.
text: She pulls away -- and uses this pivot to grab the barrel of
text: Gaston's pistol. They struggle.
text: With Gaston on the back foot for a split second, Belle yanks the
dialog: 
text: pistol hard. Gaston, not letting go, swings with it, and
text: seeking balance on a loose stone, he drops off the side of the
dialog: turret!
text: Gaston's reflexes are quick. He lets go of the pistol, grabbing
dialog: 
text: a gargoyle and swinging himself down through a window of the
text: turret. He lands on the spiral staircase.
text: Gaston's pistol, in the meantime, clatters down, coming to rest
text: on the landing of a stone footbridge below.
scene_heading: 132 EXT. CASTLE - VARIOUS TURRETS - NIGHT 132
text: Wounded, the beast climbs around the lower turret. All around
text: him, turrets quaver and crack. The castle is imploding.
speaker_heading: GASTON (O.S.)
dialog: I'm coming for you, beast!
text: Gaston continues down until he reaches the bottom of the
text: spiral staircase. He drops to a window box below, and jumps
text: sideways onto another.
text: The beast makes a second leap, onto another parapet. Tiles
text: slide away beneath him as he scrambles to hang on.
text: Belle reaches the landing at the bottom of the spiral staircase,
text: and leaps down onto another adjacent landing. She looks out,
text: trying to see the beast through the turrets.
text: The beast swings around a third parapet and leaps onto another.
text: He's now as far as he can get from Gaston.
text: Finally, Belle reaches a point where she can see the beast on
text: the faraway turret. She screams out as his grip slips.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: NO!
text: The beast's head turns.
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Belle?
text: And he spots her.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: (roars)
dialog: BELLE! You came back!
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I tried to stop them!
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: Stay there! I'm coming!
text: Gaston drops onto the walkway lined with gargoyles, landing
text: directly between the beast and Belle. He sneers -- the upper
text: hand is still his. His eyes search for a weapon... he grabs
text: a stone spire, and breaks it off.
text: With superhuman agility, the beast makes a giant leap from the
text: far parapet back toward the central turrets. Back toward Belle.
text: Belle descends the stairs, finally reaching the beast's lair.
text: The beast lands on the gargoyle walk and Gaston jumps out,
text: bringing his club cracking down on the beast's back. The
text: beast roars in pain. But he pushes past Gaston.
text: With Gaston landing blow after blow on the beast's back, the
text: beast staggers down a set of stairs onto the landing of a stone
text: footbridge (where Gaston's pistol came to rest earlier).
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Stop! Gaston, no!
text: Belle watches the beast lumbering across the footbridge -- which
text: crumbles under each mighty footfall.
text: The beast reaches the cupola on the far side, directly
text: parallel to the lair. One giant leap stands between him and
dialog: Belle...
text: Gaston lifts the club to deliver the death blow -- when the
text: beast snatches it. He yanks the club away and hurls it
text: against a far wall.
text: With a snarl, the beast's paw is around Gaston's throat. He
text: lifts Gaston and swings him out over the edge of the landing.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (snivelling)
dialog: No. Don't let me go. Please. Don't
dialog: hurt me, beast. I'll do anything.
text: TIGHT ON THE BEAST -- his features twisted with rage and hate --
text: but he controls himself -- and his anger fades.
dialog: 94.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I AM NOT A BEAST.
text: He sets Gaston down.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST (CONT'D)
dialog: Go. Get out.
text: Gaston scrambles to his feet, and the beast lunges, chasing
text: him away down the outer staircase of the cupola.
scene_heading: 133 EXT. BALCONY - CASTLE - NIGHT 133
text: Belle gazes proudly into the beast's eyes, across the final
text: chasm that separates them.
scene_heading: 134 EXT. CASTLE - CUPOLA - NIGHT 134
text: The beast has just enough distance for a head start to leap
text: across to the lair balcony.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: No! It's too far!
text: But the beast has already gotten down on all fours. His hind
text: claws dig into the stone. And then he's off, gaining speed as
text: he runs on all legs. Belle gasps -- and the beast leaps.
text: He's airborne, flying over the chasm -- and he just makes it to
text: the balcony -- landing on all fours! He rises, and smiles.
text: BOOM! The beast roars in agony. Past him, across the chasm,
text: Belle spots Gaston on the crumbling walkway, pistol back in
text: hand. He grins as he reloads for the kill shot -- and as Belle
text: watches, helpless, he takes aim again -- and fires.
text: The beast drops -- just as the walkway beneath Gaston
text: collapses. In an instant, there's nothing beneath his feet,
text: and he disappears, screaming, in a cascade of stones.
text: Belle cradles the beast's head. Anguished. He lies there,
text: breathing heavily. Softly, the beast rests his paw on Belle's
text: hand. Fading, his eyes look at her with perfect love.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: You came back.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Of course I came back. I'll never
dialog: leave you again.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: I'm afraid it's my turn to leave.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: We're together now. It's going to be
dialog: fine. You'll see.
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
dialog: At least I got to see you one last time.
text: The paw drops as the beast dies in her arms.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: No... please, no...
scene_heading: 135 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - NIGHT 135
text: As villagers stagger away in defeat, Lumière turns to Plumette,
text: takes her in his arms, about to give her a V-Day kiss.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: We did it, Plumette. Victory is ours.
text: Plumette is silent in Lumière's embrace.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Plumette...? Oh! My dear Plumette...
text: Cogsworth helps Lumière lower Plumette to the ground. Opposite
text: them, Garderobe stands beside Cadenza, reunited at last.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Oh, maestro! You were so brave!
dialog: Goodbye, my love...
text: Her arms retract -- as the footlights inside her dim and die.
speaker_heading: CADENZA
dialog: Darling! No, don't leave me!
text: Cadenza sobs. We move along the few keys he has left until they
text: freeze into silence. We TILT UP to the music stand. No hint of
text: a face. Froufrou emerges from the foyer, pawing at his master
text: and mistress, then goes still. Nothing more than a piano stool
dialog: now.
text: Mrs. Potts frantically approaches Cogsworth and Lumière.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: CHIP! CHIP! Have you seen Chip!? He
dialog: ran off! Oh, where is my little boy --
text: Lumière and Cogsworth watch in horror as Mrs. Potts' face
text: disappears into the painted ornamentation of the tea pot.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Mama!
text: Lumière turns to Cogsworth, panicked that Chip might see
dialog: what's happened.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Oh no.
dialog: 96.
text: Just as he leaps up, his features fade away and gravity takes
text: over. The saucer plummets, shattering. But Chapeau catches
text: Chip in mid-air -- and lovingly places him, inanimate, onto
text: the trolley cart beside Mrs. Potts.
text: Chapeau straightens himself nobly, and becomes a coat rack.
text: All around Cogsworth and Lumière, the staff goes still.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH (CONT'D)
dialog: Lumière... I... TICK... can't...
dialog: CHIME... speak...
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: It's all right, Cogsworth.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: I... can't... TICK... Lumière, my
dialog: friend... TOCK... it was an honor to
dialog: serve with you.
text: The only sound Cogsworth makes is `tick tock, tick tock.'
text: Lumière is alone. Surrounded by objects.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: The honor was mine.
text: Lumière does a final twirl and stiffens. He is a candlestick.
scene_heading: 136 INT. BEAST'S LAIR - WEST WING - CASTLE - NIGHT 136
text: ANGLE ON THE BELL JAR. The final rose petal drops -- just as
text: a HOODED FIGURE appears. We move up to reveal: AGATHE.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: (to the beast)
dialog: Please, don't leave me. Come back.
text: TIGHT ON BELLE -- her lips touch the beast's forehead in a
dialog: kiss.
speaker_heading: BELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: I love you.
text: Hearing these words, Agathe smiles benevolently and places
text: her hand on the bell jar -- which explodes and releases a
text: wave of rose petals, whirling into the air.
text: A golden light begins to emanate from Agathe. It encircles
text: the beast and he too begins to rise. Belle gets to her feet,
text: watching as the beast is lifted and enveloped by the swirling
text: aurora, and then buffeted gently back down to reveal --
speaker_heading: THE PRINCE
text: He lands on his feet and looks down at his hands, his arms,
text: his chest. He turns -- and sees Belle.
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: PRINCE
dialog: Belle...
text: Slowly he steps toward her, and she to him.
text: In silent disbelief, Belle runs her fingers through his hair.
text: She looks into the Prince's blue eyes. It is him. Tears of
text: grief turn to tears of joy as they lean in for their first
dialog: kiss.
scene_heading: 137 EXT. CASTLE - DAWN 137
text: Magic explodes outwards. And with it, the dawn breaks. The
text: castle transforms like someone is giving it a wash of gold. The
text: magic spreads across the balcony as the sun rises on the
text: terrace, traveling down the castle facade -- creepy stone
text: gargoyles turn into noble statuary --
scene_heading: 138 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - DAWN 138
text: As the light passes over, an upside-down FROUFROU transforms
text: back into a tiny BICHON FRISE basking in the sun. He leaps up
text: and chases his tail (still a tassle), then trots over to CHAPEAU
dialog: 
text: and relieves himself on his leg -- which changes into a human
dialog: foot.
text: Chapeau transforms back into a VALET and shoos the dog away
text: with his walking stick. As the dog weaves through his legs,
text: the valet loses his balance and bumps into the trolley cart
text: holding Mrs. Potts and Chip. It starts to roll toward the
dialog: stairs.
text: The valet backs into Garderobe, who waddles in and out of
text: sunlight, changing from wardrobe to human to wardrobe again.
text: Cadenza's face comes alive as he sees the wardrobe falling
text: onto him. As it crashes, the wardrobe's doors fly open,
text: sending out a flurry of garments. We follow them back to the
text: ground, where the human DIVA now lies on top of the human
speaker_heading: MAESTRO.
speaker_heading: MAESTRO
dialog: Oh, Madame.
speaker_heading: DIVA
dialog: Oh, Maestro.
text: The maestro smiles his now-toothless grin. She tearfully
text: embraces him -- as their dog joins in.
text: The trolley rolls past, taking us to Cogsworth, whose back is
text: bathed in sunlight. We move around to reveal the pudgy
text: MAJORDOMO, human except for his moustache, which still
text: resembles the hands of a clock. He peers through his
dialog: monocle, sees --
text: The French FOOTMAN (formerly Lumière) come into view.
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Lumière!
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Cogsworth, we beat the clock!
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Mon ami.
text: They greet each other as a feather floats by, brushing the
text: footman's nose. They look over to see --
text: A pile of feathers... from which the footman pulls the
text: sexiest French MAID in history, her feathers blossoming into
text: a dress around her.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Plumette... mon amour...
text: And then, the greatest kiss ever. Their passion ignites a
text: tiny flame on the footman's head, which the maid pats out.
text: They turn as they hear --
text: The trolley SQUEAKING as it nears the steps, about to crash
text: down. Mrs. Potts and Chip rattle on a tray, which suddenly
text: jerks to a stop on the precipice. The valet has hooked the
text: cart with his walking stick, but...
text: Mrs. Potts and Chip slide down the incline... shoot off the
text: tray... and start to TRANSFORM IN MID-AIR! They sled to the
text: bottom of the steps and skid to a halt, fully human again.
text: CHIP hugs his MOTHER... he finally got her to skate!
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Oh, Chip! What did I tell you? Look
dialog: at you -- you're a little boy again!
dialog: Oh you smell so good!
text: From the castle grounds, astonished villagers approach,
text: blinking, as the veil is lifted from their memory.
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: Darling!?
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Mr. Potts!
speaker_heading: JEAN
dialog: Beatrice! Chip! I remember! I do!
text: They embrace -- a family reunited.
speaker_heading: 139 OMITTED 139
dialog: 99.
scene_heading: 140 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - DAWN 140
text: A wonderful emotion-filled reunion. STABLE BOYS, KITCHEN
scene_heading: MAIDS, ARTISANS, GROUNDSKEEPERS, GUARDS, and SEAMSTRESSES are
text: reunited in human form.
text: Among the happy villagers, we find Cogsworth.
speaker_heading: CLOTHILDE (O.S.)
dialog: Henry?
text: He spins to see Clothilde - his wife. Gulp.
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Oh. DEAR!
text: She hugs him.
speaker_heading: CLOTHILDE
dialog: I've been so lonely.
text: He shuts his eyes tight and whispers to himself:
speaker_heading: COGSWORTH
dialog: Turn back into a clock... turn back
dialog: into a clock...
text: Lumière and Plumette embrace, then...
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: Lumière, look!
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: Oh, my Prince!
text: BELLE AND THE PRINCE emerge. He rushes to Lumiere.
speaker_heading: THE PRINCE
dialog: Hello, old friend.
text: Lumiere is taken aback by the warm embrace of his master.
speaker_heading: LUMIÈRE
dialog: It's so good to see you!
text: Belle and the Prince are surrounded by the staff. Plumette
text: curtsies to Belle --
speaker_heading: PLUMETTE
dialog: You saved our lives, mademoiselle.
text: -- As Chip runs up and hugs her tight.
speaker_heading: CHIP
dialog: Belle, it's me! It's Chip!
text: "BEAUTY AND THE BEAST" starts to play.
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: 141 OMITTED 141
scene_heading: 142 INT. BALLROOM - CASTLE - DAY 142
text: The entire village celebrates as Cadenza -- smiling with
text: dentures -- plays the harpsichord with his beautiful wife
text: Garderobe singing.
speaker_heading: GARDEROBE
dialog: Tale as old as time
dialog: Tune as old as song
dialog: Bittersweet and strange
dialog: Finding you can change
dialog: Learning you were wrong
text: We glide past various familiar faces: LeFou; Lumière waltzing
text: with Plumette; Cogsworth with Clothilde; Chip and his father,
text: Jean the Potter... and finally Mrs. Potts. She beams as she
text: watches Belle dance with the Prince, then crosses to
text: acknowledge Maurice, who sits at an easel, sketching the
dialog: celebration.
speaker_heading: MRS. POTTS
dialog: Winter turns to spring
dialog: Famine turns to feast
dialog: Nature points the way
dialog: Nothing left to say
dialog: Beauty and the Beast
text: Belle runs her hand down the Prince's smooth cheek.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: How would you feel about growing a
dialog: beard?
text: He growls playfully. As they laugh, we PULL OUT to reveal
text: the ballroom in all its restored splendor.
speaker_heading: ALL (V.O.)
dialog: Certain as the sun
text: Rising in the East
dialog: Tale as old as time
dialog: Song as old as rhyme
dialog: Beauty and the Beast
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: BLACK.
speaker_heading: 143 OMITTED. 143
dialog: 
