dialog: 
dialog: The Val Lewton Screenplay Collection - Bedlam Script
dialog: brought to you by The Val Lewton Screenplay Collection
speaker_heading: "BEDLAM"
scene_heading: AN RKO RADIO PICTURE
dialog: Final Script
dialog: June 30, 1945
speaker_heading: CHAMBER OF HORROR
scene_heading: A TALE OF BEDLAM
text: BEHIND the MAIN and CREDIT TITLES appear a series of Hogarth
text: paintings; one painting to each card. The painting which
text: shows the "Industrious Apprentice" in church will be used to
text: frame the MAIN TITLE. More elaborate and multicharactered
text: paintings will be used until the final painting is "Bedlam."
text: It is over this last painting that the narrative title
text: appears.
speaker_heading: LONDON - 1761
dialog: The people of the Eighteenth Century
dialog: called their Period "The Age of Reason"
text: As this TITLE FADES, the MUSIC of the overture FADES WITH it
text: and there can be heard the SOUND of shrieks, wild laughter
text: and hysterical babbling.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM HOSPITAL - NIGHT - SPECIAL
speaker_heading: EFFECTS
text: LOW CAMERA SETUP to show the face of the building between the
text: two statues of "Madness" and "Melancholia" above the gates.
text: The CAMERA TILTS to show the upper stories. As it reaches the
text: cornice of the building, a man in dark small-clothes and a
text: white shirt, can be seen clinging to the gutter four stories
text: above the street. He has the fingers of one hand hooked over
text: the gutter and is wildly scrambling to get a grip with the
dialog: other hand.
text: CLOSE SHOT - the man, dangling from the roof, desperately
text: struggling.
scene_heading: EXT. THE ROOF GUTTER - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - NIGHT
text: A man with a lighted lantern in his hand, wearing great broad
text: toed shoes, comes clumping along the gutter. He holds up the
text: lantern to look for a moment at the struggling man.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - the CAMERA SHOOTING down OVER the
text: shoulders of the man with the lantern. For a brief moment,
text: the lantern light illuminates the white, desperate face of
text: the clinging man. Then the man with the lantern grinds the
text: other man's hand under his heavy heel. The man in the white
text: shirt falls, screaming.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM HOSPITAL - NIGHT
text: The falling figure, as the man drops with a long, sustained
text: shriek of desperation. The body crumples sickeningly on the
text: sidewalk. People run in from either side. The door opens and
text: a warder clatters down the steps.
text: The CAMERA TILTS again and goes up past the doorway to focus
text: on the lintel between the statues so that the inscription
dialog: thereon can be read.
scene_heading: ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM HOSPITAL
dialog: Asylum For The Insane
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON STREET - NIGHT
text: LONG SHOT. A closed carriage comes careening down the street,
text: its lamps glowing, and the coachman and footman sitting
text: austerely on the box.
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S CARRIAGE - NIGHT - PROCESS
text: Lord Mortimer and Nell Bowen. Lord Mortimer is a blandly
text: stout man, puffy as a Yorkshire pudding, with a belly that
dialog: would do honor to Silenus. He is of merry, but stupid,
text: countenance and even in an age of rococo ostentation, his
text: costume is outstandingly luxuriant. Actually, he is not a bad
dialog: sort; only a little too rich and too foolish for his
dialog: country's good.
text: Like Lord Mortimer, his companion, Nell Bowen, is a product
text: of her age; a beautiful girl, bold as a frigate, merry as a
dialog: flag and with no more thought for right and wrong, or the
text: problems of the future, than the parrot on her wrist. She
dialog: would rather say a bright word than do a good deed. At the
text: moment, she is amusing herself with her parrot. Lord
text: Mortimer, between sniffs of snuff and the accompanying
text: explosive sneeze, is rolling with laughter, his fat belly
text: shaking. He stops long enough for Nell to coax her parrot to
text: display its prowess.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (to the parrot)
dialog: Come, Poll, do you know my friend,
dialog: Lord Mortimer?
dialog: (prompting) )
dialog: Lord Mortimer — Lord Mortimer —
text: The parrot finally deigns to let out a raucous yell.
speaker_heading: PARROT
dialog: Lord Mortimer is like a pig. His
text: brain's small and his belly big.
text: Lord Mortimer is seized with paroxysms of laughter. He hugs
text: Nell with familiarity in the abandon of his mirth.
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON STREET - NIGHT
text: MED. LONG SHOT - the coach. A few people running across the
text: street are in danger of being run down. The coachman slows
text: his team. A huckster, pushing his barrow before him,
text: hastening to see the cause of the excitement, brings the
text: carriage of Lord Mortimer to a complete halt.
scene_heading: EXT. THE COACH - NIGHT
text: MED. SHOT. Lord Mortimer is leaning forward to see what is
text: going on. The footman starts to climb down.
scene_heading: INT. THE COACH - NIGHT
text: SHOOTING OUT PAST Nell Bowen and Lord Mortimer. The footman's
text: head appears at the window.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: What's this hub-bub?
speaker_heading: FOOTMAN
dialog: One of the lunatics from the
dialog: asylum, I expect, Milord.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (excitedly)
dialog: A prank? A jest?
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Go and see, John.
text: The footman turns and leaves and can be seen pushing his way
text: through the crowd.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (looking out and up)
dialog: Bedlam --? It doesn't look so merry
dialog: a place, Milord. . .
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Never been there?
text: Nell, still looking, shakes her head.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: You'll have to pay Master Sims
dialog: tupence to see the loonies in their
dialog: cages — maybe they can teach you
dialog: some new tricks, Nell.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I've no need of their wit to
dialog: entertain you, Milord.
text: Lord Mortimer tries to get the kernel of the thought between
text: his mental teeth. Before he can get it, John, the footman,
text: comes back through the crowd.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: They say, sir, that one of the poor
text: devils in there fell from the roof,
text: trying to escape.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (without any feeling)
dialog: Very regrettable — well, drive on.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (a little excitedly)
dialog: Your Lordship — it seems to me the
dialog: man was known to you.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Eh?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I thought I saw him in your company
text: not a week gone by.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Eh — really?
text: He shifts himself ponderously forward on the cushioned seat.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Well, let's have a look.
text: John holds the door open for him and he starts to get out.
text: CLOSE SHOT - the step of the carriage as Lord Mortimer's
text: satin-slippered foot is placed upon it. The step sags down
text: and the carriage groans with his weight.
text: MED. LONG SHOT - the crowd, SHOOTING PAST the rear wheels of
text: the coach. Lord Mortimer, proceeded by the footman, makes his
text: way through the crowd.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE. On the pavement, in a disjointed fashion, the
text: body of the man in the white shirt lies sprawling. Lord
text: Mortimer bends over him.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (gesturing)
dialog: You — with the light —
text: The link boy advances his torch.
text: LOW CAMERA SETUP. The torch light illuminates a close view
dialog: of Lord Mortimer's face. '
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (quietly and without change of
dialog: expression)
text: It is — it is young Master Colby.
text: MED. FULL SHOT. Lord Mortimer turns to a man in a leather
text: apron whose official capacity as a guard is demonstrated by
text: the keys hung at his hip.
speaker_heading: WARDER
text: He fell trying to escape. Some of
dialog: our boobies haven't sense enough to
dialog: keep safe behind their bars.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Where is Sims?
text: The man shrugs.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Fetch him.
speaker_heading: WARDER
text: He is dining out, Milord.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (angrily)
text: Dining out with Colby's blood on
dialog: his hands! Do you know me?
speaker_heading: WARDER
dialog: (knuckling his forehead)
dialog: Yes, Milord,
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Then tell Master Sims to wait upon
dialog: me in the morning. I have some few
dialog: words I wish to say to him.
text: The warder bobs his forelock in deferential agreement. Milord
text: turns away, striding through the crowd to his carriage. .
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: INT. ANTE-CHAMBER OF LORD MORTIMER'S HOME - DAY
text: The sun shines warmly into this little bright-bandbox of a
text: room to illuminate the brooding figure of a man in a black
text: coat. He sits with his chin upon the rounded head of his cane
text: and the seamed wickedness of his heavy face, the thick woolen
text: stuff of his clothes and even the stiff leather of his shoes,
text: all make a sad contrast to the shining satin, polished wood
text: and painted wall paper of this pretty apartment.
dialog: This is Master Sims, Apothecary General of the Hospital,
dialog: St. Mary's of Bethlehem, pamphleteer to the Tory party,
text: a poetaster and a wit; a type de siecle cut from the
dialog: same sharp cloth as Boswell, Johnson and Voltaire; men
text: of genius who were at the same time scoundrels and toadies.
text: From the next room comes the shout of Nell's parrot and
text: the roaring laughter of Lord Mortimer. As Sims sits waiting,
text: a small procession of servants pass bearing trays of covered
text: dishes from which small clouds of steam escape. The last is
text: an elaborately dressed little black-a-moor bearing a small
text: silver mirror and a patch box. Sims interposes his cane
text: before the colored boy, bringing him to a halt.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Will you remind Lord Mortimer that
dialog: I am waiting.
text: The little black-a-moor gives him one look and passes on
text: disdainfully.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Master Sims relaxes again into a waiting
text: posture. From Lord Mortimer's room comes another shout of
text: laughter. He looks at the doorway with hatred, then quickly
text: looks about the room, straightening his face as if afraid
dialog: that even this momentary flash of true feeling might have be
dialog: on seen.
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S BED CHAMBER - DAY
text: Lord Mortimer is still in bed surrounded by billowing
text: cushions, so that the bed and his body are one great mass of
text: globular curves. Nell Bowen, in a velvet riding habit, her
text: train over her arm a crop in her hand
text: and a cocky tricorn on her head, lounges at the foot of the
text: bed. Beside her on a stand sits her parrot. The servants are
text: busily setting out Lord Mortimer's breakfast table. The
text: colored page has presented him with the mirror and is holding
text: before him. Lord Mortimer selects a patch and looking in the
text: mirror finds a place for it on his cheek. He pats It into
text: place, then turns the mirror so that the little, colored boy
text: can see it.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Well, Pompey, are you a pretty boy
dialog: this morning?
text: Pompey looks into the mirror and makes a horrible grimace,
text: contorting his face into what he conceives to be the very
text: pink of ugliness.
text: EXTREMELY CLOSE SHOT - of the mirror with Pompey's grimace
dialog: reflected therein.
scene_heading: MED. FULL SHOT - the group.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: What are you trying to do, Pompey?
speaker_heading: POMPEY
dialog: (looking up)
dialog: Milord, I want to look like the
text: visitor in the hallway.
speaker_heading: MILORD
text: (almost roaring as he sits
dialog: up in bed)
dialog: Sims! I'd forgotten Sims!
dialog: (to servants)
dialog: You there clear out. I want room
dialog: for anger.
text: The servants hurriedly finish putting the last dishes on the
text: breakfast table and, bowing, start to take their departure
text: from the room.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (calling after them gaily)
dialog: Send in the good Sims — first
dialog: course for Milord's rage, to be
text: eaten with a sauce of Lightning,
dialog: and to the tune of thunder - Send
dialog: him in — send him in —
scene_heading: INT. ANTE-CHAMBER - DAY
text: The servants come in from the inner room. One of them
text: starts over toward Sims who lifts his chin expectantly from
text: his cane. Before the servant can speak there is a bellow
text: from the other room.
speaker_heading: MILORD'S VOICE
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Sims!
text: With a smirk the servant gestures toward the door. Sims,
text: rising slowly, passes into the other room. As he goes
text: through the doorway another bellow can be heard.
speaker_heading: MILORD'S VOICE
dialog: Sims!
text: The door closes behind him. With one-accord the servants
text: cluster about the door, one gluing his eye to the, keyhole,
text: another his ear to the panel. There is a confused hub-bub of
text: angry SOUNDS. They grin maliciously. Suddenly, the door
text: opens and the servants straighten up and try to look as if
text: they had been engaged upon lawful errands, then relax as
text: Pompey comes through the door. He looks them over coolly,
text: shuts the door and then takes the key position at the
text: keyhole.
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S BED CHAMBER - DAY
text: Master Sims is making an elegant "leg" before his Lordship.
text: Lord Mortimer is in full spate.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: -- that you hated him I knew, that
dialog: you envied him was known to all,
dialog: but that you would dare -- dare to
dialog: leave that murderous window open --
dialog: to murder him from spite and envy -
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Murder, Milord? There was no
dialog: murder. Jackson was my guest.
dialog: He decided to leave the window
dialog: before I could open the door for
dialog: him and then -- that monstrous
dialog: accident.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Accident? Master Sims is writing a
dialog: new dictionary.
text: Both men look at her, completely puzzled.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Are accidents contrived, plotted,
dialog: executed?
text: Sims looks at her for a moment, appraising and judging his
text: antagonist, then he smirks.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Exactly, Mistress Bowen. This
dialog: was a misadventure contrived by
dialog: the victim and executed by
dialog: nature's law that those who lose
text: their grip on gutters must fall.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: You stick to that story, Master
dialog: Sims?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I could never invent one half so
dialog: droll. The characters of the tale;
dialog: two poets — Colby and myself. But I
dialog: am not only a poet, but also, by
dialog: your Lordship's favor, the
dialog: Apothecary General of St. Mary's of
dialog: Bethlehem Hospital. My friend comes
dialog: to discuss poetry. I am absent. My
dialog: guards mistake my friend for a mad
text: man. He attempts to escape from
text: them and is killed -- like a
dialog: romance, Milord.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: It's a romance that cost me twenty
text: guineas and a night of laughter.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: How so, Milord?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (breaking in)
dialog: Lord Mortimer was foolish enough to
dialog: pay in advance for poetry promised
dialog: in the future. Jackson was to write
dialog: a masque for the fete Lord Mortimer
dialog: is giving.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (almost cringing in his servility)
dialog: If I could offer my humble talents
dialog: - even at the hospital I deal in
dialog: wit and laughter, Madame. Are there
dialog: any who have come to Bedlam and say
dialog: the entertainment is not worth the
dialog: tupence they paid?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You don't entertain me, Master
dialog: Sims.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: That is because you have a tender
dialog: heart. Most people laugh at my
dialog: ugliness.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (coldly)
dialog: It offends me, sir.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (with a gracious gesture)
dialog: To move a lady so beautiful in any
dialog: way --
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: He's gallant, too.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I am as you wish, Milord, and I
dialog: shall make your fete a frolic you
dialog: will remember.'
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Sometimes the success of the play
dialog: belongs to the players. What if the
dialog: masque were performed by my company
dialog: of wits, the Bedlamites?
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Have your loonies perform?
text: He begins to laugh at the thought.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: The opposition --- not John Wilkes
dialog: nor his whole Whig Party -- could
dialog: think of anything as clever as
dialog: that, eh, Nell?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You didn't think of it either.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Well, it's one and the same thing —
text: He waves his hand in Sims' general direction.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: My friend, here, thought of it.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Let us say that you inspired the
dialog: thought, Milord.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (immensely pleased)
dialog: You hear that Nell? I inspired him.
text: Nell looks from Lord Mortimer to Sims and back again. She
dialog: says nothing.
speaker_heading: SIMS
text: (trying to draw her into
dialog: this community of good
dialog: feeling)
dialog: Let us say that you both inspired
dialog: me — Milord and the beloved of
dialog: Milord.
text: Nell flashes him a quick, hard look.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I think you misunderstand, Master
dialog: Sims. I am Milord's protege. I
dialog: entertain him and
dialog: he has no more freedom with me than
dialog: any other man.
text: There is a short silence. Both men are embarrassed.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I£, Milord, will but give me the
dialog: day and hour of the fete, I'll
text: prepare a masque of madness to set
dialog: you howling.
speaker_heading: MILORD
text: A week from today at the Vauxhall.
text: The company assembles at eight.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: (to Milord)
dialog: With your leave --
text: He indicates the door. Milord waves a fat but graceful hand.
text: With another bow, Sims backs toward the door. Milord reaches
text: for the cup of chocolate on the stand and begins to drink
text: from a tiny china cup; a cup that looks like a thimble in his
text: pudgy hand. He begins to laugh. Nell looks at him
text: inquiringly.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: A merry notion --
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: The Lord Mayor will roll in the
text: soup with laughter.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: A capital fellow this Sims -- a
dialog: capital fellow.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: If you ask me, Milord, he's a
text: stench in the nostrils, a sewer
text: of ugliness and a gutter brimming
text: with slop.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: But witty.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (with a smile)
dialog: So he tells us.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Even if his wit is wanting his
dialog: Bedlamites will set my guests
dialog: roaring. Everyone who goes to
text: Bedlam expires with laughter.
dialog: Why don't you go and see them,
dialog: Nell? You'll see how funny they
dialog: are.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Perhaps I will.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM HOSPITAL - DAY
text: A group of three Cockney girls carrying baskets go past,
text: directing their shouts of "Lavender, sweet lavender" toward
text: the houses across the street from the asylum. A cart
text: with a canvas tilt passes. In it are a bevy of young women,
text: fresh from the country. They gawk at the grey walls of
text: Bedlam, pointing their fingers and chattering among
dialog: themselves.
text: (See Hogarth's "Harlot's Progress, Plate #1") A dandy on
text: the sidewalk looks at the girls in the slowly moving cart
text: through his quizzing glass. A scrub woman is scrubbing the
text: steps to the hospital entrance.
text: Walking heavily, letting his weighty cane aid him, Master
text: Sims comes down the street. At the entrance steps he
dialog: pauses.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - the charwoman looks up. Towering above
text: her is the lord of this mad-domain. Hurriedly she begins
text: to wipe dry the step she had been scrubbing. Sims stands
text: quietly until she has finished, then, without a word or a
text: nod, passes on up -the stairs. Almost instantly a warder
text: opens it and respectfully steps aside to let Sims enter,
text: Sims passes him without a salutation or without even noticing
text: the man's hand deferentially at his forelock.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE OUT
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE IN
scene_heading: INT. SIMS' OFFICE - DAY
text: This is a cluttered apartment. Books, manuscripts, bottles,
text: pipes, canes and other oddments and oddments are scattered
text: about in a disorderly fashion. In a corner of the room is a
text: counting desk, Perched on a high stool is a slim wraith-like
text: creature of the male sex with an enormous periwig atop a tiny
text: head so that he looks like a spider with a fleck of wool on
text: his head. He lays down a quill-pen on his ledger and rises to
text: greet Sims with a low bow. This worthy clerk is called Guy
dialog: Podge.
speaker_heading: PODGE
dialog: (making a leg)
dialog: Good morning, Master Sims.
text: Sims takes off his hat, throws it to one corner of the room,
text: removes his scratch wig and lets it fall to the desk top.
speaker_heading: PODGE
dialog: There is a Quaker waiting for you,
dialog: sir -- a master stone mason. Will
dialog: you have him in?
text: Sims looks around the desk.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Podge where is my rhyming lexicon?
dialog: I want a rhyme for Mortimer.
speaker_heading: PODGE
dialog: That Quaker, sir -—
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Whatever are you rattling on about?
dialog: I have an important commission —- a
dialog: rhymed comedy for Milord Mortimer -
dialog: and you bother me with some
text: snivelling Quaker.
speaker_heading: PODGE
dialog: (humbly)
dialog: He's been waiting so long.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Waiting?
speaker_heading: PODGE
dialog: (with a glance at the
dialog: clock)
dialog: Four hours, sir.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I waited three hours for Lord
dialog: Mortimer before he would give me a
dialog: dog's word. Let him wait.
speaker_heading: PODGE
dialog: He will not wait. He's a good
dialog: workman and cheap, I'm told.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Cheap?
dialog: (thinking a moment)
dialog: Let him in.
scene_heading: EXT. HALLWAY - DAY
text: Podge crosses to the door, leans out and beckons.
scene_heading: INT. SIMS OFFICE -DAY
text: In comes William Hannay, a young Quaker of about twenty-six,
text: dressed in the plain, neat habit of his sect. His hair is
text: unpowdered and is square cut. He looks both neat and washed,
dialog: which is a great deal more than can be said for even the
dialog: luxurious person of Lord Mortimer, to say nothing of the
text: fusty garments and dirty scratch wig of Master Sims. Podge
text: stands by the door while the Quaker advances and stands
text: before Sims' desk. Sims, who has returned to his perusal of
text: the book, does not lift his head. The Quaker stands silently.
text: Podge makes a nervous SOUND in his throat. Sims pays not the
text: least bit of attention. There is an awkward silence, then
text: Sims, very deliberately, closes the book and looks up.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: You may leave us, Podge.
text: Podge fusses out the door.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: My clerk tells me that you will do
dialog: the work cheaply.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
text: With cut stone one foot thick and
dialog: the best mortar, I could do the
dialog: work for fifteen guineas.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: What if I were to give you eighteen
dialog: guineas?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: It would be too much.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (as If he had not heard)
dialog: Eighteen guineas and you are to
dialog: return to me two — then you would I
dialog: have a better price and I would I
dialog: have some reason to employ you.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: My friend —- I have forgotten what
dialog: thee has said. If thee do not
dialog: repeat it, then I can believe no
dialog: evil of thee.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: What kind of can't is this? I've
dialog: asked you for a bribe, man! You've
dialog: never been asked before? This is
dialog: simple business between us two.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (obviously controlling his
dialog: temper)
dialog: My friend, about the stone masonry -
text: At his moment, the door bursts open and Nell Bowen comes
text: sailing into the room.
text: Sims reaches hastily for his scratch wig, slaps it on his
text: head and rises, smiling. Nell is in riding clothes and has a
text: crop in her hand.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I had not looked forward to the
dialog: pleasure of seeing you so
dialog: I soon again, Mistress Bowen.
text: Nell Bowen, out of the corner of her eye, gives the Quaker an
text: appraising look, speaking to Sims as she does so.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I have a curiosity to see the
text: loonies in their cages.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: And so you shall — and so you
dialog: shall.
text: Sims goes around the desk and offers her his arm with half
text: bow. She places her gloved hand on his elbow. Hannay steps
text: aside to let them pass out the door.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: Sims and Nell come out into the corridor and he guides her
text: toward the left. Behind them Hannay emerges from the office
text: and stands waiting.
text: ANOTHER ANGELS - Nell and Sims walk down the hall. At the
text: rack, Sims pauses.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT. - Sims and Nell. She looks up at the rack.
text: There are some gentlemen's hats, two small swords, a bludgeon
text: and a sheathed dirk on a broad leather belt hanging from this
text: apparatus. A guard stands beside it, Sims puts out his hand
text: for Nell's riding whip She looks puzzled and draws away from
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Your riding crop. Mistress Bowen.
dialog: You must hang it here. It's a law
dialog: of the institute — no weapons —
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: For Heaven's sake, why?
speaker_heading: SIMS
text: In his play, Dekker, a second-rate
dialog: dramatist of the last century,
dialog: wrote of those in there --
text: He gestures to the door at the end of the corridor.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: "Fierce as wild bulls/ untamable as
dialog: flys,/ And these have oft/ from
dialog: stranger's sides,/ Snatched rapiers
dialog: suddenly/ and done much harm."
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Strangely — one forgets you are a
dialog: man of letters, Master Sims.
text: Neil hands him her whip. He hangs it on the rack.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Our hospital is ancient and well
dialog: known -- much written of —- I dare
dialog: say, no man or woman comes to
dialog: London from the country who does
dialog: not pay his tupence.
text: He puts out his hand, palm up and Nell fumbles for a moment
text: in a reticule at her waist, brings forth some coins, counts
text: out two coppers and puts them in his hand. He smiles and
text: offers her his arm again.
text: TRUCKING SHOT - The CAMERA on a crane, DOLLIES BEFORE Nell
text: and Sims as they walk toward the doors at the end of the
text: corridor; The nearer they get to the door the closer the
text: CAMERA is to Nell's face so that finally she is in full CLOSE
text: UP. As she walks down the corridor strange cries, shrieks,
text: bursts of laughter and hysterical babblings grow louder and
text: louder, Nell, listening as she walks, grows more intent and
text: wondering. So long as Sims continues in the frame, he is
text: watching her reaction to these SOUNDS with cruel amusement.
text: As the CAMERA BACKS THROUGH the double doors, the doors
text: opening to either side, Nell's face is in FULL CLOSE-UP.
text: Both she and the CAMERA STOP.
text: The CAMERA HOLDS just long enough to convey the look of
text: horror on her countenance, then activated by the crane, the
text: CAMERA SWOOPS UP and BACK to reveal the SOUND and fury of
dialog: Bedlam.
dialog: (Note to Director: Please use care with the following
dialog: sequences according to conversation regarding the showing of
dialog: insane and lunatic persons.)
text: The main ward of Bedlam from the superior height of the
text: camera is shown as a strange, unearthly place. Barred windows
text: set high in the wall push dust-filled beams of sunlight
text: across the room, leaving the larger portion of the great hall
text: in shadow, In these shadows and in the blinding sunlight,
text: strange, aimless human beings can be dimly seen. At the same
text: moment that this curious room reveals itself to the eye the
text: horrid SOUND of Bedlam bursts upon the ear; the moans, the
text: shrieks, the maniacal laughter and the bird-like twitter of
text: idiocy. At the far end of the room, Sims leads Nell from the
text: dark doorway to a blazing square of sunlight.
text: FULL SHOT - Sims and Nell. Nell looks about her. What she
text: sees is one small section of the main hall of Bedlam. Near
text: the stairway are the open doors of two rooms through which
text: the mad inmates can be seen.
dialog: (This set up should approximate the picture of Bedlam by
text: Hogarth, with Sims and Nell in the places of the mistress and
text: the maid, visitors to the institution who can be seen in the
dialog: left middle b.g. of the painting.)
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Nell and Sims are seen through the weaving
text: ribbons in the fumbling hands of an idiot who is amusing
text: himself at "Cats Cradle."
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Are they not witty, Mistress Bowen?
dialog: Look at the frolic that this one
dialog: treats himself to. All day long
text: weaving nets to catch peacocks for
dialog: the Royal dinner.
text: He forces a laugh, Nell looks at him.
speaker_heading: NELL
text: (quietly; still shocked by
dialog: the first contact with
text: the insane; almost as if
dialog: to herself)
dialog: They are all so lonely -- they are
dialog: all in themselves and by
dialog: themselves. They pay no heed to us.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (smiling faintly)
dialog: You noticed that. They have their
dialog: world and we have ours.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (still speaking almost as
dialog: if to herself) )
dialog: Like separate dreams.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Ours is a human world, theirs is
dialog: a bestial world -- without reason
dialog: and without soul. They're
dialog: animals.
text: He takes her arm.
text: TRUCKING SHOT - Nell and Sims as they approach a pillar that
text: holds up the roof of the great hall. At a small table butted
text: against this pillar sits a quiet, decently dressed man,
text: Oliver Todd, the author, who is busily writing with a quill
text: pen, Sidney Long, a tall, slim man of early middle age with a
text: bald head and dressed in breeches and waistcoat leans against
text: the table. Crouched at the foot of the table is a timorous
text: young maniac, Dan, whose eyes are wide with countless, unseen
dialog: terrors.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (as they come up to this group)
dialog: Some are dogs, These I beat.
text: He lifts his hand and Dan, the Dog, crouches away from him in
dialog: abject fear,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (as they continue to walk)
dialog: --and some are pigs.
dialog: (he points)
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - A dirty man. This man has matted unkempt
text: hair and board and crouches down in a mass of soiled rags.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: --these I let wallow in their own
dialog: filth.
text: They pass on.
text: TRUCKING SHOT - Sims and Nell.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Some are tigers -- their remedy is
dialog: a dose of iron -- chains.
text: He pauses and points.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - to show the barred doorway of the room in
text: which Tom, the Tiger is confined. This is a gigantic maniac.
text: The rents of his garments show the muscles of his torso and
text: arms. He is chained to the wall; one chain binds his right
text: arm to the wall, another chain passes about his waist and
text: through in the wall behind him; other chains hold his legs.
text: Only his left arm and hand are free and with this hand he is
text: plucking at the chain which binds his torso.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Dorothea, a young girl in a grey gown, her
text: dark hair falling about her shoulders. She stands statue-like
text: by a pillar, her eyes set in a vision of far away worlds.
text: Not a muscle moves in the face of this victim of melancholia.
text: As Sims and Nell come up to her, Sims stops and with a coarse
text: hand pats the cheek of the insane girl, the contemptuous sort
dialog: of pat one would give a heifer in passing a stall.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: —- and some, like this one are
dialog: doves.
text: Nell looks at him with aversion.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I've seen enough.
text: She turns and starts away.
text: TRUCKING SHOT - Sims catches up with Nell and lays his hand
text: on her elbow.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: But you haven't seen the ones in
dialog: the cages —-
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I've seen enough.
text: She marches resolutely toward the door.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: Nell, with Sims a pace behind her, comes out the double doors
text: and starts toward the rack.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - the rack with the Quaker in the b.g. Sims
text: and Nell come up, and Nell reaches for her whip. Sims, with
text: exaggerated politeness forestays her and hands it to her
text: ceremoniously.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: -- but you have no idea how merry
dialog: they can be -- what amusement they
dialog: afford --
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Amusement? From that mad girl with
dialog: her staring eyes?
text: CLOSE TWO SHOT - Nell and Sims. With a sudden exasperated
text: movement, Nell lifts the whip and brings it down in a
text: smashing blow across Sims' cheek.
text: Sims nursing his cheek, makes a leg, backing away from her.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: If I have offended you, Mistress
dialog: Bowen --
text: Nell starts to lift the whip and he backs away from her. She
text: turns and starts rapidly away, flouncing past the Quaker
text: without giving him so much as a look.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Sims, as he watches, Nell.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - NOON
text: Before the door of the hospital stands a gnarled, misshapened
text: little valet, wearing postillion boots and holding the
text: bridles of two blooded horses. One of these horses carries a
text: side-saddle. They move restively and he calms them by patting
text: their necks.
text: Suddenly, the door of Bedlam bursts open and Nell, without
text: bothering to close it, comes quickly down the steps. Behind
text: her in the doorway, the Quaker appears and starts coming down
dialog: the steps.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - As Nell comes to her valet. She crosses
text: quickly to her horse, Varney cups his hand for Nell's foot to
text: help her mount. As she starts to put her foot between his
text: hands, she makes a sudden quick movement to transfer her crop
text: from her left to her right hand. The suddenness of the
text: movement alarms Varney's horse. It rears and Nell's horse
text: shies and pulls away from Varney. He tries to hold the reins
text: as the horse rears and plunges.
text: Suddenly, Hannay steps in, takes the reins from the little
text: valet, and after a brief struggle, he subdues the horse,
text: holds it for a moment patting Its neck to calm it.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Thank you, sir.
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: My valet can plait a tress or twirl
dialog: a furbelow quicker than a handy
dialog: woman, but he has no knack with
dialog: horses.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I was glad to do thee this service,
dialog: I saw thee strike Sims. Thee should
dialog: not have done that.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Do you think I'm afraid of him? Do
dialog: you think he could harm me?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (sailing)
dialog: Thee are able enough. It is the
dialog: poor ones in there I'm thinking of.
dialog: Sims will make them suffer for that
dialog: blow.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Are we lovers, that you "thee" and
dialog: "thou" me? I've never seen your
dialog: face before,
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: He's a Quaker, Mistress Bowen,
text: He goes through an absurd performance of shaking and
text: shuddering. Hannay looks at him with deep resentment,
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: My name is William Hannay. I am one
dialog: of the Society of Friends.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (scornfully)
dialog: I've heard of them. They turn the
dialog: other cheek,
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: There's more to being a Quaker than
dialog: turning the other check, and saying
dialog: "thee" and "thou".
dialog: It's feeling pity for those in
dialog: there, as you did,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Do you think I struck him because I
dialog: felt pity for the loonies?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I saw it in thy face.
text: Nell forces a laugh.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Pity? I had no such feelings, sir.
dialog: I struck the man because I wanted
dialog: to — because he is an ugly thing in
dialog: a pretty world.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: There are many ugly things in this
dialog: pretty world, if thou would but see
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (looking at him directly)
dialog: Master Quaker, I did not always
dialog: wear velvet.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Eh, I had guessed that. But where
dialog: there is one like thee to wrest
dialog: comfort from a hard world with wit
dialog: and cleverness there are ten
dialog: thousand who can not.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I have no pity for them. Let them
dialog: do as I did.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: But those in there --
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: Can they help themselves?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: And I have no pity for them, either
dialog: -- animals without souls --
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: That is not thy thoughts.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Is it not? Come a week hence to
dialog: Vauxhall in the evening and you
dialog: will see me laughing at those same
dialog: loonies you think I pity.
text: Nell makes a motion to Varney who cups his hands again. Nell
text: places her foot in his hands and mounts her horse.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Thou will not laugh at the poor and
dialog: the afflicted -- not thee. I have
dialog: seen great ladies and their hearts
dialog: were like stone, but thee --
text: As Varney mounts, Nell looks down at Hannay,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (gathering her horse)
dialog: My heart is a flint, sir -- it
dialog: may strike sparks, but they are
dialog: not warm enough to burn. I have
dialog: no time to make a show of loving
dialog: kindness before my fellow men --
dialog: not in this life. I've too much
dialog: laughing to do.
text: She strikes her booted foot against the horse's flank. Varney
text: rides after her. Hannay watches them.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: EXT. THE FETE CHAMPETRE - VAUXHALL GARDENS - NIGHT
text: The CAMERA SHOOTING OVER the necks of two fiddles
text: DISCLOSES a night scene from Fragonard: At a long table
text: covered with linen and gleaming with silver is a gay company.
text: The men are in court dress and powdered wigs; the women in
text: bouffant skirts. The whole scene is illuminated by
text: lanterns hung on tree limbs and in the bushes and shrubbery
dialog: of the gardens.
text: At one end of the table stands a structure not unlike the
text: tall, narrow apparatus which Punch and Judy shows are given.
text: A curtain hangs across the face of this box hiding its
text: contents from view.
text: The CAMERA EDGES BACK TO show the two musicians in the
text: foreground who sit on the lawn, their backs against the
text: bole of a great oak.: One la playing a violin,-the-—
text: other a viola and behind them, standing leaning against the
text: trunk of the tree is another musician with a
text: Suddenly from the right a tumbler in multi-colored garments
text: comes whirling in, head over heels, a torch in either hand.
text: His last violent somersault brings him right side up in front
dialog: of the table.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Lord Mortimer at the center of the table
text: with Nell at his right hand and another lady on his left.
text: In front of the table is Sims, dressed in court satins and
text: wearing a white wig on his head. The acrobat, torches in
text: either outstretched hand, has come to a stop just beside
dialog: him,
text: REVERSE SHOT - SHOOTING OVER Lord Mortimer's shoulder. Sims,
text: grinning, holds the acrobat's head in his hands at table
text: level, his right hand under the man's chin and his left hand
text: on top of his head. The effect is that of a man who holds
text: a manikin head, inasmuch as the acrobats face is masked
text: with a sharp-nosed Venetian mask through which the eves
text: gleam in mad fun,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (ceremoniously)
dialog: --and here, Milord, is the
text: spirit of Lunacy to illuminate
dialog: the Golden Age of Reason —
text: He releases the mad acrobat's head.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - With a prodigious leap the acrobat
text: whirls, somersaults and lands on his knees in front of the
text: gaily painted box. He holds up his torches and the
text: curtains slowly part to reveal what appears to be a gilded
text: statue; the subject a youth crowned with bays, a loin cloth
text: around his hips and a golden orb and scepter in his hands,
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - to include the entire table. There is
text: a stir among Milord's guests; exclamations of delight and a
text: light patter of applause. Sims bows.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Lit by Lunacy and speaking with the
dialog: voice of Youth, the Age of Reason
dialog: will tell you of its brightest
text: adornment--(with a gesture) Milord
dialog: Mortimer.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - The gilded boy moves forward to the
text: little stage-like projection at the opening of the box. For
text: the first time it can be seen that this is not a statue,
text: but a young boy of about twelve covered from head to foot
text: with gold leaf. Now that his eyes are open, they stare
text: wildly pale in contrast to the gilded skin. He tries to
text: speak, gasps, and tries again.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - with Sims in the foreground.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (lightly)
dialog: Come Reason, you've wit enough
dialog: to say a word or two.
text: The boy tries again.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Lord Mortimer as he half rises and calls
text: down to the end of the table.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: What say you to this Wilkes --a mad
dialog: boy playing Reason. That's a Tory
dialog: joke for you.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT , The end of the table. Here sit Lord
text: Sandwich and John Wilkes. A pretty girl sits between them
text: with numerous patches on her face. Wilkes bends across to
dialog: speak to Lord Mortimer.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: ...And only the Tories laugh at
text: it. The opposition wonders what
dialog: the effect may be on that sick
text: young boy. The Tories care only
dialog: for the jest, we Whigs have some
dialog: concern for the humanities.
scene_heading: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Milord.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: You hear that, Nell — give them a
text: jest and they answer with a
dialog: political tirade.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: He said something about the boy --
dialog: the effect --?
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (carelessly)
dialog: Go and ask him. He'll make you a
dialog: speech on the matter.
text: Nell shrugs.
text: MED. FULL SH0T - The gilded boy - Sims in the f.g. and part
text: of the company at that end of the table.
speaker_heading: GILDED BOY
dialog: To this pretty world —
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - Nell.
scene_heading: GILDED BOY'S VOICE
dialog: (fumbling over the words)
dialog: — pretty world --
text: She looks thoughtful, then starts to rise.
text: FULL SHOT - The entire company as Nell starts down toward
dialog: Wilkes' end of the table. (Note to Director: Please avoid
text: showing the full figure of the gilded boy as much as possible
dialog: by using the voice to gain such effects as can be had.)
speaker_heading: GILDED BOY
dialog: To this pretty world, there came
dialog: Heaven sent, Divinely Inspired —-
text: He breaks off.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Good — good — the great voice of
dialog: reason.
speaker_heading: GILDED BOY
dialog: The blessing of our age —
text: He stops again.
speaker_heading: SIMS
text: (prodding him with his
dialog: cane)
dialog: Come, come! I spent all morning
dialog: beating it into your head.
text: The people at the table laugh. The gilded boy drops the
text: scepter and clutches his throat as if it pained him.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (Turning to Lord Mortimer)
dialog: You see, Milord, Reason is overcome
dialog: with emotion when it must speak of
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Prod him on, Sims.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Come on! A few more of those golden
dialog: words I taught you, lad.
speaker_heading: GILDED BOY
text: A man set like a jewel --
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - The other end of the table. Nell is
text: bending over Wilkes' shoulder to speak to him. He is half
dialog: turned.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: The effect? Somewhere I heard that
dialog: the human body must breathe through
dialog: its pores. If you shut those pores -
text: He gestures toward the glided boy. Nell looks over, nods and
text: starts back.
text: Nell looks over.
text: EXTREME LONG SHOT - The young lunatic in his bright gilt is
text: writhing in agony. By now the orb, too, has joined the
text: spectre on the ground. Sims points at him _with his pane.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Another word, good, gentle Reason.
speaker_heading: GILDED BOY
text: (in a voice choked with
dialog: pain)
dialog: — this prince of men, this paragon -
text: He stops, fighting for breath.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Go on.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Lord Mortimer with the two ladies on either
text: side. He is laughing and the hand that holds his wine glass
text: shakes with mirth and the wine drops over the satin of his
text: coat and stains the ruffles at his wrist.
text: The woman at his left bends forward, eager and excited by the
text: pain she witnesses. Her face is set.
speaker_heading: SIMS' VOICE
dialog: Go on -- go on!
text: MED. FULL SHOT -- Sims and the glided boy -- Sims prods at
text: him with his cane.
speaker_heading: GILDED BOY
dialog: (forcing it out)
dialog: Lord Mortimer —-
text: He falls to the ground and lies still.
text: FULL SHOT - The table. There Is a general stir, but most of
dialog: this movement is the excitement of laughter.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - as Nell comes to stand beside Lord
dialog: Mortimer.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Bless me, Nell, better than
dialog: your parrot -- what an eulogy -—
text: from a mad boy freezing with ague
text: and burning with fevers.
text: Nell looks at him without replying.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - Sims bending over the boy. Two footmen with
text: white aprons over their livery come into the scene.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (to the servants)
dialog: Duck him in the river -- a
text: bit of canvas and a handful of
dialog: coarse sand will get the gilt off.
text: As he says this,Nell leans across the table toward him.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Master Sims —
text: He turns in her direction.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Isn't that harsh treatment for a
dialog: sick lad?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: They have to get off the gilt if
dialog: he's to be well again.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: So you know that.
text: Sims looks at her with an air of surprise.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Know what, Mistress Bowen?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You know that anyone painted
dialog: over so thick as this poor lad
dialog: will die.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - the table. This has become more
dialog: interesting than the guests had anticipated. They are
text: craning forward eagerly some still half-smiling from
dialog: their former laughter.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - Sims.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: If I understand you properly, this
dialog: boy is dying because --
text: A footman kneeling, beside the boy looks up and plucks at
text: Sims' sleeve. Sims looks down.
speaker_heading: FOOTMAN
dialog: The boy is dead, sir.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (correcting himself)
dialog: -- the boy is dead because his
text: pores were clogged by the gilt.
scene_heading: GROUP SHOT.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Well, then, sweet Mistress Bowen,
dialog: as you are such a stickler for the
dialog: correct definition, you will grant
dialog: me the legal fact that this boy
dialog: died by his own exhalations. You
dialog: might say — he poisoned himself.
text: FULL SHOT - the table. As the guests hear this, they burst
text: into loud laughter.
speaker_heading: FOOTMAN
dialog: (to Sims)
dialog: Where shall we take him?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I have told you -- the river —
dialog: canvas — sand -- there is no change
dialog: in my order.
text: The servants start to pick up the boy.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - SHOOTING PAST Nell as she watches the
text: servants carry away the limp body of the boy. Then she looks
text: at Lord Mortimer. He Is pouring wine; his chuckles subsiding.
text: She looks to the right. A fop is seated there, licking pastry
text: off his fingers.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Milord -- have we not had enough of
dialog: this?
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Eh?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (pointing to Sims)
dialog: Enough of this boring, dull man and
dialog: his cruelty. "
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: But we're all laughing, Nell.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I'm not laughing, Milord..
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: He shall make you laugh.
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Sims!
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Spare me that.
text: She starts to turn away.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: But Nell —
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: A boy died tonight —- a boy -- a
dialog: boy who had no mind to guide his
dialog: thoughts or deeds — maybe there'll
dialog: be some concern about that among
dialog: the Whigs. There certainly is none
dialog: among the Tories.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Oh, you'll find they're laughing
dialog: too.
text: She starts away and he gives her a little push in back as if
text: it were a benediction and a blessing. She moves off.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Wilkes, Lord Sandwich and the paramour of
dialog: that nobleman.
speaker_heading: LORD SANDWICH
dialog: Liberty — that is a great word you
dialog: Whigs found somewhere, but just the
dialog: same, you'll end either with the
text: pox or on the gallows.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: That, Milord, depends on whether I
dialog: embrace your sweetheart or your
dialog: politics.
text: Lord Sandwich and his companion burst out laughing.
text: Wilkes Joins in.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE. It is at this moment that Nell comes walking
text: up behind them. She has not heard what was said; she hears
text: only the laughter. She looks at them for a moment without
text: speaking, then with a look of disappointment, walks off.
text: LONG SHOT - Lord Mortimer's end of the table.
text: Sims is leading up a young lady whose face is also adorned
text: with a Venetian mask. This one is fringed and hung with tiny
dialog: bells.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (with the air of one who
dialog: is master of ceremonies)
dialog: Here is Alfrieda, Queen of the
dialog: Artichokes. She will sing for you.
text: FULL SHOT as seen from Nell's angle. She hears the roar of
text: laughter and sees the poor, mad wench trembling at Sims'
text: side, then turns and passes into the darkness between the
text: trees. As she does so, a cracked female voice can be heard
text: beginning the song. "One World's Turned Upside Down."
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON STREET - NIGHT
text: CLOSE SHOT - a barber shop window. (See Hogarth's painting,
text: "Night".) The window is set with small square panes of
text: glass. In each pane is a short candle. This candle-light
text: illuminates not only the interior of the barber shop but also
text: a portion of the darkness outside. Through the window, as
text: in the Hogarth painting, a barber can be seen shaving a
text: customer, holding the customer's nose between thumb and
text: forefinger to steady his head. The CAMERA DRAWS BACK TO show
text: a doorway at one side of the barber shop. On this doorway
dialog: is lettered
scene_heading: THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
dialog: Meeting House
text: As the CAMERA HOLDS on this doorway, the doors open and
text: Quaker men and women come quietly out into the street. Some
text: walk one way, some the other. William Hannay comes out and
text: starts down past the barber shop. As the light from the
text: candle-lit window falls on him, a voice from the other side
text: of the street calls his name,
speaker_heading: NELL'S VOICE
dialog: Master Hannay --
text: Hannay stops abruptly puzzled.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - Nell's carriage, parked on the other side of
text: the street. Varney opens the door and Nell, in all the
text: finery she wore at the fete, comes out and sweeps across the
text: street, the CAMERA PANNING WITH her.
text: FULL TWO SHOT - Nell as she comes up to Hannay,
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: This is a strange place to see
dialog: thee, Mistress Bowen,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: A little dull perhaps — but a good
dialog: enough place to ask the
dialog: questions I want to ask.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: So far, Mistress Bowen, I have
dialog: found thee more ready with
text: answers then with questions.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Don't fear -- my questions are pert
dialog: enough. First, do you
dialog: think me a woman of kind heart?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: So I have told thee.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I saw thy face at Bedlam — it had
dialog: compassion and kindness.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I have never seen that in my
dialog: mirror. But let's say I grant
dialog: the fact — let's say I saw
dialog: things that moved me to pity --
dialog: what then, Master Quaker?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Perhaps God sent thee here so that
dialog: thee might find guidance -—
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: From you?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I have not said so.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Well, from whom then?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Perhaps he sent thee so that we
dialog: might speak together.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I have seen things tonight I
dialog: have no liking for — my friends
dialog: laughing at sorry idiots brought
dialog: out from Bedlam to amuse them --
dialog: a poor boy --
dialog: 
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Thou need not tell me. It Is
dialog: a bad time for the poor -- and
dialog: people suffer, the ones With wit
dialog: and the ones-without.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: And if you feel sorry for them -—
dialog: what do you do about all this?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I do what I can. I am a stone
text: mason.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: How does that help people?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I build well -- let others build as
dialog: well — and soon this city will
dialog: be a clean and decent habitation.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: But what of me? What can I do? I'm
text: only a jester to bring laughter to
text: Lord Mortimer's dinner table.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Perhaps even in the amusement of
dialog: Mortimer there may be a way for
dialog: thee to help the poor people in
dialog: Bedlam. Is not Mortimer a member of
dialog: the Council?
text: She looks at him for a moment, then nods her head.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Good. You're not such a fool as
dialog: I thought you.
dialog: (suddenly flirtatious and feminine)
dialog: But why don't you remove your
dialog: hat — have you no liking for me?
text: Almost instinctively the Quaker starts to lift his hand
text: to his hat brim then stops and brings it down to his
dialog: side.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: It is a rule among the Friends to
text: uncover only before God.
text: She smiles at his confusion. He smiles back at her
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S ANTE-CHAMBER - DAY
text: CLOSE SHOT - Pompey. The little colored boy is seated on a
text: high stool, examining with a dandified air the polish of his
text: finger nail. He turns from this elegant diversion to
text: the disdainful contemplation of some person at the other
text: aide of the room.
text: The CAMERA PANS WITH his glance to reveal Master Sims
text: in his snuff-brown coat, his chin on his cane, waiting
text: as he waited before.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE of the room - showing the door to Lord
text: Mortimer's chamber. The door opens, a gentleman Is
text: = ushered out by a footman, who, holding the door open,
text: turns to Sims.
dialog: ;'
dialog: FOOTMAN Milord will see you now, Master Sims.
text: Sims rises slowly, crosses to the door and goes through it,
text: Pompey watches him with lofty interest. When the ..
text: door closes-behind Sims, Pompey returns to the elegant
text: examination of his finger nails,
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S chamber - DAY
text: Milord, dressed in his small clothes but without his coat, is
text: seated before his poudoir. His valet is in attendance. At
dialog: the moment of Sir-is' entrance, Lord Mortimer has his fat
text: face deep within a paper cone and the valet is sprinkling
text: powder on his dressed wig,
text: Nell is seated on a straight chair beside a little table on
text: which is a plate of biscuits and a glass of wine. She is
text: nibbling at a biscuit.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (making a leg)
dialog: Good morning, Mistress Bowen,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (gaily)
dialog: Good morning.
text: Lord Mortimer emerges from the powder cone,
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Ah, there, Sims -- Ah, Sit down
dialog: and wait a bit, I've news for you.
text: He puts his face back in the cone,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (to Nell)
dialog: I trust you enjoyed the fete.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You will hear presently how much I
dialog: enjoyed it.
text: Lord Mortimer emerges from the cone. The valet takes . ;
text: it away from him and begins to whisk the loose powder
text: from his shoulders,
dialog: ;
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Sims, you've no idea what we've
dialog: decided, Nell has a splendid
dialog: notion. She wants to turn
dialog: ¦
dialog: Bedlam upside down -- make all
dialog: :
text: the loonies happy as linnets,
dialog: SIMS Mistress Bowen is very kind.
dialog: You can't imagine what a clever
dialog: vixen she is, Sims--- thought
dialog: it all out before she oven spoke
dialog: to me -- beds -¦- blankets --
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: some to sow and some to bake --
dialog: good food — a practical lass,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I can quite understand what
dialog: Mistress Bowen wants. We've
dialog: needed good beds and good food in
text: Bedlam for a long while,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You've forgotten to mention good
dialog: treatment, Master Sims,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: That, too, I'm sure we could
dialog: afford that.
text: He pauses, looking at Nell.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: You can't imagine what gratitude I
dialog: bear you, Mistress Bowen, Those
dialog: reforms you propose will make my
dialog: name stand out in the history of
dialog: Bedlam --
text: The valet begins to hang a sash around Lord Mortimer's bosom.
text: Lord Mortimer rises to facilitate this ministration,
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (to Sims)
dialog: We know you'd agree.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I'm overjoyed, Milord,
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Good — good.
dialog: (to Nell)
dialog: You see, it's done, Nell -- not a
dialog: bit of trouble.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: There is but one little point,
text: Milord — the trifling matter of
dialog: money.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: Milord has thought of that..
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Of course — of course - the council
dialog: will vote the funds.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: That is generous of you, Milord
dialog: very generous.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: How so, Sims? What sort of
dialog: generosity?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Does not Milord have property in
dialog: Moorfields?
speaker_heading: MILORD
text: A dozen dwelling houses — a
dialog: warehouse — two inns. You see,
dialog: Sims, I know my accounts,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I know your properties. They are
dialog: taxable by the institute,
dialog: therefore, Milord, this reform
dialog: would cost you no loss than five
dialog: hundred guineas in additional
dialog: taxes. But what is that to you,
text: Milord -- a more bagatelle — some
dialog: little gift you'd gladly give to
dialog: Mistress Bowen,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I'll relinquish that little gift,
dialog: Master Sims.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: I gave you no gift, Nell.
speaker_heading: SIMS
text: She merely speaks, Milord, of a
dialog: gift she's not going to have. Now
dialog: take Master Wilkes -- he would
dialog: never be so generous -- he would
dialog: say, "Loonies don't vote."
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: But that's true. There is
dialog: nothing to be had from them.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You were going to do this as a kind
dialog: deed, Milord.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (murmuring)
dialog: Five hundred guineas.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: There would be so much I would have
dialog: to do without. We'll have to
dialog: forget this whim of yours, Nell.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: It is not a whim, Milord. It is the
dialog: first thing I've asked of you.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (protesting)
dialog: Now, Mistress Bowen, Milord has to
dialog: keep up appearances at Court —
dialog: that's a great expense to a man.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: That's true. You've no idea,
dialog: Nell, what a great responsibility
dialog: it is to be rich— what an expense.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: It's simply this, Milord — I've
dialog: asked you to do a good deed - and
dialog: you find the very thought of it too
dialog: expensive.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: You've no right to speak to me that
dialog: way, Nell.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I've all the rights of having put
dialog: up with you for almost a year
dialog: Milord — trying to make you laugh
dialog: and then listening to that fat
dialog: laugh of yours as it comes rumbling
dialog: out of your fat throat.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (sputtering)
dialog: Put up with me -- with me --
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I said so.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: But look what I've done for you.
dialog: You'd be camping In the rain on
dialog: Strathmore Common with the other
dialog: strolling players if you had not
dialog: caught my eye.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Do you call that weak and watery
dialog: vessel your eye? I would not
dialog: want to look at the world
dialog: through it. I would not want to be
text: a dull man forever in need of
dialog: amusement. I would not want to
dialog: bribe and be bribed -- to fawn upon
dialog: the king and kick the commoner -
dialog: in short, Milord, I would not
dialog: want to be Lord Mortimer.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Such angry words.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (sputtering)
dialog: You would not want -- you would not
dialog: want --
speaker_heading: NELL
text: (as she starts for the
dialog: door)
dialog: Nor do I want to be with you --
dialog: not for an instant longer -
dialog: maybe being rich and great and
dialog: powerful is infectious -- it's a
dialog: disease I don't want to catch.
dialog: Goodbye, Milord.
text: At the doorway she turns. An amused light comes into
text: her eyes. She first grins, then grimaces and sticks her
dialog: tongue out at Lord Mortimer,
scene_heading: INT. ANTE-CHAMBER - DAY
text: Nell comes quickly out of the door and passes with a rush
text: through the ante-chamber. Pompey, still seated on the high
text: stool, looks at her in astonishment. And when the wind of
text: her passage subsides, he sits puzzling out the meaning of
text: this passionate exit. With a shrug he gives up the mental
text: effort and takes from his pocket a pair of "conquerors",
text: two chestnuts, each tied to a separate string, which he
text: proceeds to bang together to see which one "wins."
text: Then, as the door to the inner room begins to open, he
text: quickly stuffs them back Into his pocket and assumes a
text: formal air. Sims and Lord Mortimer appear in the doorway.
text: Lord Mortimer's arm is familiarly about the shoulders of the
dialog: other man.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Of course, as I pointed out to you,
dialog: you have every right to take legal
dialog: steps --
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: You've been very helpful, Sims.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: But it grieves me, Milord, to have
dialog: been the cause of the quarrel.
text: He starts to go through the door, with him.
dialog: Lord Mortimer goes
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: It was not your fault. She
dialog: quarreled with me. She insulted me.
text: Sims bows and Lord Mortimer closes the door behind him, Sims
text: straightens himself; breathes deeply. Pompey watches him,
text: then suddenly jumps off the stool, bows and says with great
dialog: respect.
speaker_heading: POMPEY
dialog: May I guide you to the door, Master
dialog: Sims?
text: With assured pride, Master Sims follows the pageboy from the
dialog: room.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: INT. NELL'S LODGINGS - MORNING
text: The place is in an uproar, A bailiff, assisted by
text: several porters, is removing the furniture. The
text: bailiff has a paper in his hand which he waves angrily
text: before Nell's face. Varney cowers in one corner. The
text: parrot on its stand in the other corner of the room is
text: screaming and flapping its wings. Nell has a dish in her
dialog: hand and this dish is in imminent danger of being thrown
text: at the bailiff.
speaker_heading: BAILIFF (WAVING THE PAPER)
dialog: You know Lord Mortimer's signature
dialog: --is this not it?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I can recognize a pig's tracks
dialog: when I see them.
speaker_heading: BAILIFF
dialog: Then you know I have the right to
dialog: remove the furniture which he
dialog: loaned you.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Loan does he call it? He and that
dialog: loathsome Sims.
speaker_heading: BAILIFF
dialog: It is all legal -- all by order.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Oh, take it and get out!
text: She lifts her hand. The bailiff ducks. She puts the dish
text: down gently on a small table. The bailiff picks it up and
text: hands it to one of the porters. He crosses the room and
text: picks up the parrot, stand and all. Varney comes out of his
text: corner and takes hold of the stand.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: That's not Lord Mortimer's.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Leave Poll alone. She's no present
dialog: to bo given and taken back.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: She's been with Mistress Bowen
dialog: since Mistress Bowen played
dialog: "Aurora" in "The Rivals."
dialog: (proudly)
dialog: We did very well in that.
text: The bailiff relinquishes the parrot and looks around the
text: room which has been cleared by his men. With a courteous
text: tilt of his hat he goes out. Nell looks around her. There
text: is nothing in the little room except Varney, herself and
text: the parrot on the stand. She begins to laugh.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Serves me right, Varney. A kind
dialog: heart butters no parsnips.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: But what shall we do, Mistress
dialog: Bowen? We've nothing but the
dialog: clothes we wear and poor Poll.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Poll? Poll's enough---
text: CLOSE SHOT - the parrot as she reacts by cocking her head
text: quizzically to one side.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE OUT
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE IN
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S ANTE-CHAMBER - AFTERNOON
text: MED. FULL SHOT of Sims and Mistress Sims. Mistress Sims is a
text: young woman of about thirty. She is dressed in the mode, with
dialog: perhaps a little more elegance than an honest woman would
text: display. Her figure is good and when she moves there is an
dialog: assurance and authority in her movements that one would not
text: readily ascribe to a young and innocent girl. On her face are
dialog: several decorative patches; their placement, as was the
dialog: manner of the time, dictated by such skin blemishes or marks
dialog: of disease as they wore intended to hide.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: --and—remember if gin is offered
dialog: you, my dear, you must take wine —
text: it is more genteel.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: But I like gin. It makes me merry.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: You'll be merry enough on wine.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: But you tell me that Lord Mortimer
dialog: likes a witty girl.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: You'd best leave the wit to me,
dialog: I'll make you seem witty.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: I can crack a joke well enough.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Not in good company, my dear niece.
dialog: You're not accustomed to it, you
dialog: know.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: (hurt)
dialog: I've known some gentlemen.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: But this is a lord -- a man from
dialog: whose largess many blessings can
dialog: come to the family of Sims -- and
dialog: all for just a little laughter.
dialog: That's all he wants — to be amused.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: A fine lord indeed! Mocked by a
text: parrot.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: But that parrot is our key to open
dialog: Milord's friendship to you.
dialog: Remember, you were offended -- you
dialog: offered money --
text: It is at this moment a footman emerges from the interior
text: chamber, and, with a bow, gestures to the open door.
scene_heading: HIT. LORD MORTIMER'S CHAMBER - AFTERNOON
text: Lord Mortimer is at a small Sheraton desk, writing with a
text: quill pen. He rises to greet his visitors.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Milord — a dreadful things --
text: He catches himself in a pretense that his excitement had
text: overcome his good manners.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Lord Mortimer, this is my niece,
dialog: Kitty.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: A charming person -- she does you
dialog: honor, Sims. But have you heard the
dialog: latest news of my lady Mistress
dialog: Nell? What a jest she's hit upon.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: You mean the parrot, Milord? It is
dialog: because of that we've come here.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (admiringly)
dialog: -- A great bit of jest -- what a
dialog: vixen!
text: Sims and Mistress Sims exchange glances.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I had hardly thought to find you in
dialog: such humor.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: But it's only a jest. Nell has the
dialog: bird for sale in the market place
dialog: letting it scream that silly ditty,
dialog: "Lord Mortimer is like a pig, His
dialog: brain's small and his belly big."
dialog: All London's come to laugh at the
dialog: bird.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: So they have. And It does you no
dialog: good, Milord, This joke will make
dialog: your proud name a mockery.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: The bird won't sing too long. I've
dialog: sent Pompey to buy it,
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: (in a rather flat, vulgar tone)
text: That girl holds the bird at a high
dialog: enough price.
text: Sims darts her a look.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: My niece knowing of my affection
dialog: for you tried to buy the bird. She
dialog: offered twenty guineas and was
dialog: refused.
text: Lord Mortimer starts to cross to a small table on which are
text: sot out a carafe of wine, glasses and a stone bottle of
dialog: Holland gin.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Oh, Mistress Bowen wants more
dialog: honey, on her bread than that,
text: Sims." Pompey has a purse with a
dialog: hundred guineas in it.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: (with a glance at Sims)
dialog: A hundred guineas for a bird!
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Will you have some wine, Mistress
dialog: Sims?
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: Wine is too French for me, Milord.
dialog: It is the way I feel about men. I
dialog: like men to be as big as beer and
text: as strong as gin. Beer has a head
dialog: on it, you know. You can't say
dialog: that for wine. Gin has some muscle
dialog: to it and you can't say that for
dialog: wine either.
text: Sims tries to give her a warning glance. She takes the drink
dialog: of gin Lord Mortimer has poured for her,
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (watching her)
dialog: Bless me, I've never heard anyone
dialog: put it that way.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: There is much to be said for our
dialog: national institutions.
text: It is at this moment that there is a discreet knock at the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Come in.
text: Pompey enters and as he comes through the doorway he holds up
text: a purse apparently full of guineas. '
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: She refused?
speaker_heading: POMPEY
dialog: She said it was not enough.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: What sort of game is this?
speaker_heading: POMPEY
dialog: Mistress Bowen told me to tell you
dialog: the bird would remain for sale and
dialog: that you could sell every property
dialog: you owned and not have money enough
dialog: to buy it.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Oh — that's the way the wind blows,
dialog: Milord.
speaker_heading: MILORD
text: Malign me - The girl digs her spurs
dialog: too deep.
text: Sims beckons and Lord Mortimer follows him to a corner of the
dialog: room.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Milord, we can always make her my
dialog: guest.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: At Bedlam — no, no. She's as sane
dialog: as you and I.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Was Colby mad? He was my guest.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: We've been good comrades, Nell and
dialog: I. I'll not do that.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: As you will, Milord.
text: They start out of the two shot,
text: MED. FULL SHOT - as the two men cross the room to
text: where Mistress Sims is seated. Mistress Sims pours a glass
text: of gin and hands it to Lord Mortimer,
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: Here, Milord. Here's confusion to
dialog: your enemies.
text: Milord takes the glass. She clinks her glass against his
text: and they both drink. Sims watches them and smiles,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: It's a shrewd trick. You can't re
dialog: strain a parrot from slander --
dialog: you can't exercise the right of
dialog: privacy against a bird. But I
dialog: have a way, Milord.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: Another drink? It will make you a
dialog: lion.
text: Milord takes the drink and swallows it at a gulp.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: I'm an angry man.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: There are laws against the
dialog: depredations of live stock,
dialog: Milord, is not a parrot live
dialog: stock? Are you not suffering
dialog: loss. You know that, "he who
dialog: steals my purse steals trash - but
dialog: he who --"
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Why I heard that at the
dialog: playhouse.
text: Sims gives her a look to silence her.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: What do you suggest?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: We can swear out a writ of seizure
dialog: - send a bailiff for the parrot and
dialog: have it here within the hour,
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: We could do that.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Indeed we can.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SILK
dialog: Arrest a parrot? I'll drink on
dialog: that, Milord.
text: She tosses off another glass of Hollands.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S ANTE-CHAMBER - DAY
text: Pompey jumps off his stool and back up against the wall to
text: get out of the way as a whole squad of people come
text: crowding through. There is a bailiff who has Varney
text: clutched firmly by one elbow while with the other hand Varney
text: holds onto the parrot. After then come Nell and Hannay,
speaker_heading: BAILIFF
dialog: (hauling and tugging at
dialog: Varney)
dialog: Come along -- come along.
text: His efforts to push Varney through the door into Milord's
text: room are so violent that he blocks the door instead of
text: opening it and has to pull Varney around to one side to clear
text: the doorway. This momentary stoppage enables the Quaker to
dialog: say a word to Nell,
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I told thee no good would come of
dialog: it. Thee can not mock thy friends
dialog: this way.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Mock him -- he'll wish I'd only
dialog: mocked him when I finish.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
text: Softly.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Bah!
text: She flings into the other room after the bailiff and Varney.
text: Hannay quietly follows her.
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S BED CHAMBER - DAY
text: Milord and Mistress Sims are a bit reddened by the gin they
text: have consumed, but Sims himself is seated elegantly,
text: delicately holding up a tiny wine glass. Milord, his wig a
text: bit awry goes lurching across the room toward Varney.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: I swore I'd wring its neck. Give
dialog: me that bird, Varney.
text: Varney looks fearfully from Lord Mortimer to Nell.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Your gifts you can take back,
dialog: Milord, but the parrot was mine, is
dialog: mine and remains mine as long as I
dialog: want.
text: Lord Mortimer lurches forward and seizes the parrot roughly
text: from Varney's wrist. With one hand he holds it by the body,
text: the wings fluttering, with the other hand he seizes its neck.
text: The parrot squawks piteously. Nell screams. The Quaker steps
text: forward and with a quick movement, takes the parrot from Lord
dialog: Mortimer.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Thee must be careful of other's
dialog: property.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (making a great bustle to
dialog: get at his sword)
dialog: Curse you, man! You'll fight me for
dialog: this.
text: Nell takes the parrot from the stone mason; smooths its
text: disturbed plumage with her hand. Lord Mortimer finally gets
text: out his sword.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (furiously)
dialog: Draw man, draw!
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: As thee can see, I an weaponless, I
dialog: do not fight nor brawl with other
dialog: men.
speaker_heading: MILORD
text: (furiously advancing and
dialog: menacing the Quaker with
dialog: his sword)
dialog: You will fight me.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I cannot!
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Fight or I'll run you through.
text: He has the point against the Quaker's chest.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Will you not fight?
text: The Quaker shakes his head,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Milord --
text: The muscles of Lord Mortimer's fat arm tense as he prepares
text: to thrust. Hannay sees the desire to strike in the
text: other's eyes. With a quick movement of his arm, he
text: brushes aside the sword and seizes Lord Mortimer by both
dialog: arms.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (very quietly)
dialog: Friend, thou hast no quarrel with
dialog: me.
text: He gives Lord Mortimer a shove. Lord Mortimer goes stumbling
text: backwards, catches his heel on the edge of the carpet and
text: falls backward into the depths of the feather mattress_ on
dialog: his bed,
text: CLOSE SHOT - Lord Mortimer struggling to get up from the soft
text: cushions. Nell with the parrot on her wrist bends over him,
text: laughing.
speaker_heading: PARROT
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Lord Mortimer -- Lord Mortimer --
text: Hannay bends into the scene, takes a firm hold on Nell's arm
text: and draws her back, saying.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (with a slight smile)
dialog: Thee must not mock thy friend.
text: FULL SHOT - The group, Hannay takes Nell's arm and quickly
text: gets her out of the room while the bailiff and Sims rush to
dialog: aid Lord Mortimer.
text: CLOSE SHOT _ Sims and the bailiff help Lord Mortimer to get
text: up. On his angry face
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: EXT. STONE YARD - AFTERNOON
text: It is a bright sunny day and the clink of the hammers on the
text: chisels makes a merry and industrious sound. Two or three
text: journeymen are busy squaring blocks of granite. In the f.g.
text: Nell is seated on a block of cut stone with her skirts lifted
text: a few inches to protect them from the dust. Behind her stands
text: Varney with the parrot on his wrist, Hannay stands before her
text: in his work apron, his sleeves rolled and a sledge in his
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Thee can earn an honest living for
dialog: thyself.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I had to sew my costumes when I was
text: on the stage.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: Two shillings a week and all found
dialog: for a seamstress.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: One can live well on that if one is
dialog: frugal.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (sighing)
dialog: What would I do with Varney? Who'd
dialog: have him?
text: Hannay feels Varney's arm muscles and shakes his head,
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Thou hast not strength enough for a
dialog: mason, Varney.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: You see?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Just the same I'll give Varney
dialog: work. He can sweep up the dust
dialog: here. He has strength enough for
dialog: that,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: He sweeps, and I sew -- all very
dialog: fine, but not very exciting.
dialog: (to Varney)
dialog: What do you think of it, Varney?
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: I like a merry life, Mistress
dialog: Bowen.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (rising suddenly)
dialog: And so by blazes -- so do I!
dialog: Everyone makes his living with his
dialog: own tricks. My tricks are not
dialog: yours, Master Stonemason.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: If I may say a word. Mistress Bowen
dialog: -- you still have many friends•
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: That I have! There's Captain
text: Standing — but he's always talking
dialog: about Fontenoy —- and Mr. Armiston
dialog: and Wilkes -— there's Wilkes -—
dialog: (admiringly)
dialog: "That devil Wilkes." He's a clever
text: man and Sims fears him.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: INT. JOHN LARD'S PUBLISHING HOUSE - DAY
text: This is a small shop opening directly onto the street. The
text: walls are lined with bookcases and a library ladder serves
text: the highest shelves. On this ladder a gentleman with a cocked
text: hat pushed back on his wig sits reading. There are bins of
text: books on the sidewalk in front of the shop and counters
text: within. At the rear of the shop is a manually operated
text: printing press. The shop is fairly well filled with
text: customers; serious gentlemen who are looking at books,
text: discussing prints and indulging in political arguments. Sims
text: is standing near the printing press with a companion, a stout
text: gentleman who looks not unlike Dr. Samuel Johnson. The CAMERA
text: is set up to SHOOT THROUGH the press. The press lowers,
text: stamps and starts to move up. The printer, wearing the
text: typical box hat of his trade, reaches into the press for the
text: finished sheet and hands it to Sims.
text: INSERT THE FINISHED SHEET. It is a cartoon by Hogarth
text: depicting John Wilkes with horns, a tail and a devil's
dialog: pitchfork.
text: BACK TO SCENE - Sims and the other man chuckle and look over
text: to another corner of the shop.
text: The CAMERA FANS WITH their gaze to pick up Wilkes and Nell
text: standing near a small counter. Wilkes has a book in his hand.
text: He is talking across it to Nell.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: So far as I'm concerned, dear
dialog: Mistress Bowen, you need not teach
dialog: your parrot any special phrases for
dialog: my benefit.
text: Nell looks at him for a moment, trying to figure out this
text: cryptic statement.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Am I to understand from that,
dialog: Master Wilkes that you're not
dialog: interested — not in Bedlam nor in
dialog: me?
text: She makes a movement as if to go. He restrains her by
text: putting his hand lightly on her arm.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: I did not mean that. I meant only
dialog: that I am a different sort of a man
dialog: from Lord Mortimer. I am not easily
dialog: pleased.
text: Again Nell and Wilkes exchange a long silent glance.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I think you expect too much, Master
dialog: Wilkes.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: I offer more. You want to fight
dialog: the nastiness and the corruption of
dialog: Bedlam and I offer you political
dialog: alliance with John Wilkes. Bring me
dialog: evidence and I'll be pleased to
dialog: take it to court.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Let us say that puts a brighter
dialog: face on the matter Master Wilkes .
speaker_heading: WILKES
text: One gives a girl a kiss to seal a
dialog: certain kind of bargain, Nell.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (protesting)
dialog: This is a rather public place,
dialog: Master Wilkes.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: (disregarding her)
text: But one shakes hands with a comrade
dialog: and a friend.
text: He puts out his hand. Smiling delightedly, Nell gives him her
dialog: hand.
text: THE CAMERA PANS BACK TO SIMS AND HIS COMPANION.
speaker_heading: FRIEND
dialog: (smiling at cartoon)
dialog: This is a real blow at Wilkes,
speaker_heading: SIMS
text: (looking off at Nell and
dialog: Wilkes)
dialog: It is a blow I'll leave you to
dialog: administer. I've a blow of his to
dialog: ward away.
text: He puts his hat on his head and starts for the door.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S CHAMBER - LATE AFTERNOON
text: A little table has been drawn up to the fireplace and around
text: this table sit Lord Mortimer, Master Sims and Nell Bowen.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: -- and so you see, Mistress Bowen,
dialog: Milord thought it would --be best
dialog: to make friends again.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: On your advice, I suppose, and for
dialog: some purpose of your own?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (with a resigned gesture)
text: Milord, speak to the girl.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Every word he says is true and
dialog: better put than I could say it,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Well, so we're friends again. You
dialog: go your way and I go my way.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: But friends aren't that off-handed
dialog: with each other, Mistress Bowen,
dialog: Milord would like to be kind to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I'm duly warned. Go on.
text: Sims holds up a large bank note. After a proper pause to let
dialog: Nell take in the full significance and amount of the bill, he
dialog: speaks:
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Milord thinks you've been looking
dialog: rather pale as of late — perhaps
text: the waters of Bath — a rest —
text: He hands over the bank note. Nell takes it and looks from
text: him to Lord Mortimer. She then reaches out to the tea table
text: and picks up two pieces of bread as she speaks.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (to Lord Mortimer)
dialog: Milord, you know that I have a
dialog: contempt for certain kinds of
dialog: money. How deep that contempt is I
dialog: am about to show you.
text: She takes a big bite of the bank-note sandwich, chews and
text: swallows it then throws the rest of it into the fireplace.
speaker_heading: SIMS
text: (bowing to her across the
dialog: table)
dialog: The Bank of England thanks you for
dialog: three hundred pounds.
text: Nell rises and cuffs his face for his impertinence. This
text: makes Lord Mortimer laugh. With contempt she stalks past
text: him to the door.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (taking papers from his
dialog: pocket and putting them
dialog: on the table)
dialog: Tomorrow after the Commission for
dialog: Lunacy examines her she will strike
dialog: no more blows — not at you nor at
dialog: me.
text: He drips a pen.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Here — you sign here.
text: Lord Mortimer takes the pen reluctantly and holds it poised
text: over the paper.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: But confound me, Sims, I can't sign
dialog: this. She's not mad. She's not a
dialog: danger to herself and others, as it
dialog: says here.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Sign, Milord. She's a danger to my
dialog: position and to your properties.
dialog: Alone she means nothing. With
text: Wilkes behind her she's more
dialog: dangerous to us than any mad woman.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: But I don't like to do this.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Sign.
text: Milord begins to write.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: INT. THE LUNACY BOARD'S CHAMBER - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM -
speaker_heading: MORNING
text: This is a medium-sized room. A peg-board runs around the
text: walls and on each peg hangs a cooked hat, point down. (See
dialog: Hogarth's "Hudibras" -- Plate IX - The Committee) These hats
text: are the only decoration. At one end of the room is a small
text: barred window. In the center of the room, three tables are
text: arranged in a U-shape and covered to the floor with dark
text: cloth. Around this U-shaped table sit ton commissioners of
text: lunacy in sombre clothing. Most of them wear either scratch
text: wigs, periwigs or their own hair, powdered. The three chief
text: commissioners at the center of the table wear judge's wigs,
text: the hair curling down to their shoulders, Nell stands before
text: the opening of the U made by the three tables,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (rattling on)
dialog: I'm twenty-three years of age -
dialog: born at Rye -- my parents are dead
dialog: and I have no husband nor child --
dialog: what more would you wish to know?
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: The Commission of Lunacy will frame
dialog: the questions for you, Mistress
dialog: Bowen.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Ask away.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: Do you know your alphabet?
text: Nell looks at him with scorn.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I know A from Zed and I can read
dialog: and write as readily as any man I
dialog: see before me --
dialog: (she takes a look)
dialog: Perhaps a little better,
text: There is no answering smile on the dour faces of the
dialog: commissioners,
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: Do you know the difference between
dialog: right and wrong?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: What is right for you - that much I
dialog: know -- and vice versa.
text: The Chief Commissioner nods to the man at his left,
text: knowingly. The man nods back,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (watching them)
dialog: Oh, don't fool yourself, A merry
dialog: answer does not make me a fool,
dialog: gentlemen. Ask me a sensible
dialog: question and you shall have a
dialog: sensible—answer —-
text: Again the two men look at each other, but the nod is a little
dialog: different this time, Nell has scored a point here. Behind
text: the Judges a door opens and James Sims comes through. With a
text: nod to the commissioners, he pulls up a chair so as to take
text: his place at the elbow of the Chief Commissioner, The Chief
text: Commissioner nods to him. He leans to whisper in the Chief
text: Commissioner's ear. The Chief Commissioner looks up at Nell.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: Mistress Bowen, is it true that
dialog: some days past you refused
dialog: the sum of one hundred gold guineas
dialog: for a parrot not worth
dialog: five shillings?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I had my reasons. It was a jest.
text: At the foot of the table, a commissioner looks up at her,
scene_heading: SECOND COMMISSIONER
dialog: You know your sums?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: If two and two make four -- I
dialog: do.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: Knowing that one number added to
dialog: another makes a greater number, I
dialog: presume you know a large sum of
text: money from a small sum.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I only know I like large sums
dialog: better than I like small sums.
scene_heading: SECOND COMMISSIONER
dialog: Then why did you refuse one hundred
dialog: guineas for a parrot worth five
dialog: shillings?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I told you it was a jest.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: Knowing the value of money,
dialog: Mistress Bowen, can you explain why
dialog: it was that you ate a bank note?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: For a jest. The Chief Commissioner
dialog: nods.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Master Sims knows why I ate the
dialog: money — to show my contempt for it.
scene_heading: SECOND COMMISSIONER
dialog: Is that how one shows contempt?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: No. But at that moment it was
dialog: the only way to show contempt, I
dialog: was angry and that's what occurred
dialog: to me.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: Do thoughts, like that always occur
dialog: to you when you are angry?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: But surely everyone does foolish
dialog: things some times — at a whim — for
dialog: a prank —
text: The Chief Commissioner nods his head. Sims grins.
scene_heading: SECOND COMMISSIONER
dialog: Is it wise to eat money?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: But it was a jest.
text: A paunchy commissioner laughs, Sims smiles. The Chief
text: Commissioner raps with his palm on the table top for order.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Nell as she looks about, panic growing in her
dialog: face,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Sir — gentlemen — would you permit
dialog: me to communicate with Mr. John
dialog: Wilkes — he would speak for me.
dialog: FULL SHOT - The commissioners. The Chief Commissioner
text: looks at Sims. Sims shakes his head,
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: (turning back to Nell)
dialog: This is not a court -- you are not
dialog: in need of any witnesses but your
dialog: own sanity and we shall judge the
dialog: worth of that.
text: He turns to Sims and begins to whisper. The Commissioner on
text: his right hand and on Sims' left hand bend in to confer.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Nell as she watches them.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - the end of the table whore Sims sits with
text: the Commissioner. Nell is in the f.g. The Chief Commissioner
text: glances through some papers on the table, picks up a quill
text: pen and signs his name, then passes the paper to Sims.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: Mistress Bowen you have asked for
dialog: voluntary commitment to enter St.
dialog: Mary's of Bethlehem Asylum, The
dialog: charges for your care and keep are
dialog: to be borne by Milord Mortimer and
dialog: I have here —
text: (he holds up the paper)
dialog: the commission's approval of your
dialog: request. The commission has
dialog: adjudged you insane.
text: As he finishes speaking, the commissioners start to rise, get
text: their hats from the peg-board and start for the door,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: But I made no petition to enter
dialog: Bedlam.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Sims as he looks at her and grins.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Perhaps you did it in jest,
dialog: Mistress Bowen,
text: He joins the others as they leave the room. Nell rushes
text: forward into the U formed by the three tables,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You're not going to put me in
dialog: Bedlam -- not for a little joke —
dialog: not for playing a trick —
text: They pay no attention to her and continue leaving the room.
text: Nell holds out her hands to them and tries to plead with
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Milords — gentlemen — please listen
dialog: — I'm of sound mind --I know what I
dialog: do -- I know what I say, I did not
dialog: ask for admission to Bedlam --
dialog: please — please —
text: Without looking back at her, they leave the room. Sims is the
text: last to leave. He is the only one who looks back. As he goes
text: through the door, he shuts it behind him. Nell crumples to
text: the floor in the middle of the U and lies there sobbing.
text: (Optical effect - A Fade Out in which the walls seem to be
text: drawing in around the prostrate girl.)
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: INT. THE MAIN ROOM - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - NIGHT
text: BIG HEAD CLOSE UP - Nell, She is listening and around
text: her can be heard strange, low human SOUNDS. Her eyes are
text: wide with apprehension and alarm. She rolls them first one
dialog: way and then another following the source of these soft
speaker_heading: SOUNDS.
text: The CAMERA PULLS BACK to display a little of the
text: space around her. On the walls, crouching, rounded
text: shadows can be seen moving; almost as if animals were
text: crawling, indistinct and horrible through terrible darkness,
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - Nell's face. On the
text: wall behind her one of the soft, indistinct shadows begins
text: to grow harder in outline, distinct and erect in appearance
text: the shadow of a human. The shadow leans toward her.
text: She gazes at it with panic-fixed intensity. Her lower jaw
text: falls slack in terror as the shadow, growing larger,
text: comes closer. She takes her eyes from the shadow and
text: searches in the surrounding darkness for its source.
text: Suddenly, her whole body moves away from what she sees in
text: an instinctive gesture.
scene_heading: MED. CLOSE SHOT - REVERSE ANGLE - to show Nell in the f.g.
text: coming toward her is a man. His figure is in outline.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Nell as her mouth begins to form a scream. The
text: scream is topped by the hard, sudden metallic sound of chains
text: being flung down. She looks wildly in the other direction.
text: LONG SHOT - Toward the door from Nell's angle. Coming toward
text: her are three men with pieced lanterns. The three moving
text: blobs of light are fantastic and eerie in the room. They
text: come steadily toward her, revealing themselves as Master
text: Sims, attended by two guards. One of the guards pushes him
dialog: aside.
text: CLOSE TWO SHOT - Sims and Nell. Sims comes up to Nell,
text: holds his light over her face and grins down at her. He
text: fumbles in his pocket, pulls forth a coin and holds it up.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Here in Bedlam, my dear, we cannot
dialog: feed you bank notes.
text: He forces the penny he holds between her teeth.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Try chewing on this.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S CHAMBER - MORNING
text: CLOSE SHOT - Poll the parrot. A man's hand comes into the
text: frame and presents a cracker to Poll.
speaker_heading: MILORD'S VOICE
dialog: Polly wants a cracker.
speaker_heading: POLL
dialog: (repeating)
dialog: Polly wants a cracker.
text: The CAMERA PULLS BACK TO disclose Lord Mortimer in very tight
text: white riding breeches and boots. Varney is holding the
text: parrot before him. On the floor around them are open trunks
dialog: and portmanteaux.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: (looking up brightly)
dialog: You see, Varney, now that he is
dialog: mine, I've already taught him a new
dialog: and original trick,
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: Yes, Milord.
text: There is the SOUND of a door opening and both look off.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - MED. LONG SHOT - to show Mistress Sims In mob
text: cap and mantalet as she comes in from the ante-chamber.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Ah, my love -- and how did you
dialog: spend the night?
text: Mistress Sims ignores him and looks at the trunks.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: Are you going on a voyage, Milord?
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Oh, no, not a voyage. Just a trip
dialog: to the country to ride -- to smell
dialog: the innocent air -- to listen to
dialog: the twitter of the birds -- to
dialog: rusticate -—
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: (pointing to the tight
dialog: trousers)
dialog: I see — to rusticate,
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: I would invite you, my dear, but
dialog: it's a bachelor occasion -- sport,
dialog: you know -- manly things.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: (still eyeing the tight
dialog: trousers)
dialog: I see.
text: She shrugs.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: Well, all good things must end,
dialog: Milord, I'll have a bit of the gin.
text: She crosses over to the buffet and pours herself a
text: glass. She drinks.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: And another little sip to take away
dialog: the dry taste of piety.
text: She downs the rest of the gin.
speaker_heading: MILORD
dialog: Piety? I thought there was precious
dialog: little of that in this house.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS SIMS
dialog: There's a Quaker outside who wants
dialog: to see you. Pompey is sending him
dialog: about his business.
text: Varney looks up from attending the parrot.
scene_heading: INT. LORD MORTIMER'S ANTE-CHAMBER - DAY
text: From his high stool Pompey is holding forth to Hannay.
speaker_heading: POMPEY
dialog: —- such a person has never been
dialog: known in this household.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Come now -- thou must know that to
dialog: be an untruth. Nell Bowen had tea
dialog: with Milord only yesterday.
speaker_heading: POMPEY
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: Your young lady was the one who
dialog: was telling tales. There's been no
dialog: woman in this house but Mistress
dialog: Sims since I can remember — so they
dialog: tell me.
text: Hannay looks at him. He knows it's useless to ask further,
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Well, never mind.
text: He turns and leaves the room. Pompey watches him off, then
text: digs into the pocket of his jacket and takes out a piece of
text: toffee. He begins to munch it. The door from the bed chamber
text: opens. Instantly, Pompey thrusts the toffee back into his
text: pocket, then reaches for it again as he sees that it is only
dialog: Varney.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: Where is the Quaker?
speaker_heading: POMPEY
text: He's been and gone.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
text: He must have just left.
speaker_heading: POMPEY
dialog: That's likely.
text: Varney gives him a dirty look and hustles off in pursuit of
dialog: the Quaker.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: EXT. THE STONE MASON'S YARD - DAY
text: Hannay in his street clothes comes slowly down the street and
text: passes under the block and tackle. From behind him comes a
text: shout. He turns.
speaker_heading: VARNEY'S VOICE
dialog: Master Hannay -- Master Hannay —-
text: Hannay who has turned at the sound of his name, waits and
text: Varney comes running In to him.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: (excited and out of
dialog: breath)
dialog: I'll tell you where she is, Master
dialog: Hannay. I'll tell you where she is
dialog: -- they put her in Bedlam.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: In Bedlam?
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: Aye -- yesterday -- they summoned
text: her. She's there, now.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Well -- friend -- thee must come
dialog: with me. We shall go to Bedlam.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: No, no. I can't go with you. I'm
dialog: employed by Milord,
text: Hannay looks et him. Varney quickly explains,
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: You see, Master Stonemason, I have
dialog: to live.
text: He lifts his arm.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
dialog: And you, yourself, said I haven't
dialog: muscle enough for honest work.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: It is enough that thee is an honest
dialog: man, Varney -- that thee ran all
dialog: this way to tell me where she is.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: INT. THE MAIN ROOM - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: MED. FULL SHOT - the pillar near which Oliver Todd is busily
text: writing at a small table. The author is engrossed in his
text: work, his quill pen flying, the point creaking and scratching
text: on the paper. Near him slouches Sidney Long, a tall, slim
text: man, who continually thumbs the edges of a book. A shaft of
text: light strikes past them and in the murky depths of the room
text: on either side the dim figures of other mad men and women can
text: be seen. Nell stands near them, looking fearfully about her.
text: Suddenly from far off a voice can be heard calling.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Nell Bowen — Nell Bowen --
text: CLOSE SHOT - Nell as she looks. Other voices take up the
text: chant of her name.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: Nell Bowen -- Nell Bowen -- Nell
dialog: Bowen --
text: She looks about puzzled.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - the group near the pillar. The voices are
text: still calling and Nell's anxiety and curiosity verges on
text: terror. She looks around to find the source of this weird
text: chanting. Sidney Long looks up from his book and sees her
dialog: anxiety.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Is that your name they
text: Nell nods.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: How do they know I am here?
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: They don't know. Some of our poor
dialog: companions spend their days looking
text: out the window. If they hear a new
dialog: cry they repeat it, then others
dialog: take it up and so it goes.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: But my name -- how do they know?
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Someone shouted in the street --
dialog: someone trying to reach you.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (gratefully)
dialog: Oh -- thank you -- thank you.
text: Long points with his finger and she runs off in that
dialog: direction.
text: LONG SHOT - Nell running through the alternate light and
text: darkness of the main room.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - Nell as she comes up to the window. Her name
dialog: is still being called.
text: Three lunatics, two men and a woman, are hanging out the
text: window. She forces her way between them and bends out over
text: the sill.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Nell, She looks up and down the street. The
text: three patients watch her with meaningless, uncomprehending
text: eyes. Finally she turns away in disappointment.
scene_heading: EXT. ENTRANCE - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: William Hannay is just mounting the steps.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: At the arms rack stand two warders. One of them is taking
text: the admission fee from a young apprentice all done up in
text: holiday finery, with his lass on his arm. The other warder
text: hangs up the boy's cudgel on the arms rack. The little
dialog: business of entry fee and weapon checking having been gone
text: through the young couple are admitted into the main room just
text: as Hannay comes up to the arms rack. Without a word he holds
text: out a two-penny piece. They look at him, then at each other.
text: The older of the two warders shakes his head. The younger
dialog: speaks.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WARDER
dialog: (in a surly voice)
dialog: You can't come in.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: By George Sims' order I suppose.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WARDER
dialog: Even so.
text: During this conversation the older of the two warders has
text: slipped away in the direction of Sims' office.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: And may I see Sims?
speaker_heading: YOUNG WARDER
dialog: (with a jerk of his head)
dialog: And quickly too.
text: Hannay looks around in the direction of the warder's nod»
text: REVERSE ANGLE - Sims, with the older warder, is coming toward
dialog: him.
text: TWO SHOT - as Sims and Hannay meet.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I've been refused admittance.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: That is unfortunate -- but a new
dialog: ruling -- you understand --
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I understand only that I am a free
dialog: man -- that I have money in my
dialog: hand. You have no legal right to
dialog: deny me entry to a place where
dialog: others have been admitted.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Quite true -- quite true.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Well?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: The warder will take your tupence.
text: The older of the two warders takes Hannay's money,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: And now if you will leave your arms
dialog: at the arms rack --
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I have no arms. I am of the
dialog: Society of Friends.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Then I'm afraid we must return your
dialog: tupence.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: But why?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Did you not quote the law to me?
dialog: Let me then quote law to you -- It
dialog: is a rule of our institute that any
text: who go into the main hall must hang
text: their arms upon that rack.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: But I have no arms.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Since you have none, I cannot let
dialog: you enter.
speaker_heading: HANNAY (FURIOUSLY)
dialog: Thou cannot deny me entrance for
dialog: such cause.
text: He takes a step toward the door and tries to push it open. It
text: is looked. The two warders and Sims grin.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I must.
text: For a moment the Quaker stands silent but furious as if ready
text: to try physical conclusions with the two warders, then he
text: collects himself, shrugs and walks off.
speaker_heading: SIMS (CALLING AFTER HIM)
dialog: It is a rule, and I break no rules,
dialog: Master Quaker.
text: Hannay walks off without turning around.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET OUTSIDE OF ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: This is a portion of the street which has not been seen
text: before. The street at the side of the hospital. In the street
text: is a horse-drawn stone sledge and several hand wains. On the
text: sledge are three great pieces of cut granite and in the wains
text: are tubs of mortar, trowels, chisels and other impedimenta of
text: the mason's craft.
text: Three young masons are at work sliding one of the cut stones
text: onto a litter. They catch sight of someone off scene. One
text: mason nudges another. They stand up. Hannay comes strolling
text: into the scene.
scene_heading: FIRST STONE MASON
dialog: Brother Hannay — I'll be blasted --
text: sauntering as if it were a
dialog: holiday.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: On my own business, friend Smith,
dialog: and without profanity.
scene_heading: SECOND STONE MASON
dialog: And without this good job of work
dialog: that we have, Hannay.
speaker_heading: HANNAY (PLEASANTLY ENOUGH)
dialog: I bid for it.
scene_heading: SECOND STONE MASON
dialog: And found Master Sims' way of
dialog: doing business a little strange,
dialog: eh?
scene_heading: FIRST STONE MASON
dialog: (turning to his work)
dialog: We've the work -- we've the will —
dialog: let's at it boys!
text: They bend to the stone again-and start heaving to get it into
dialog: place.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: But you haven't the knack of it.
text: He bends down and gives a heave and the stone slides easily
text: down the rollers and onto the litter,
speaker_heading: FIRST MASON
dialog: (wiping the sweat off his
dialog: brow)
dialog: Thanks, Hannay.
speaker_heading: SECOND MASON
dialog: Maybe you'd give us a hand.
speaker_heading: THIRD MASON
dialog: There are but three of us.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I'd just as leave.
text: The four men take their places about the litter.
speaker_heading: FIRST MASON
dialog: (to Hannay)
dialog: You call.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
text: One — two — heave, all.
text: With a great surge they force the litter up onto their
dialog: shoulders.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
text: Lead away.
text: The two men at the front of the litter start up a short ramp
text: into the building.
scene_heading: INT. ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: A long narrow corridor. The four masons carrying their cut
text: stone come along the corridor to a place where it leads into
text: a slightly wider but darker hall. Here a candle is hung in
text: the wall and there is evidence of mason's work. The first
text: two masons come up to this place and halt.
speaker_heading: FIRST MASON
dialog: Call!
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: One, and two and down we go!
text: Simultaneously they lower the litter. All four stand around
text: the stone, wiping their brows, hitching up their aprons;
text: laxing off the tension of hard muscular labor.
speaker_heading: FIRST MASON
dialog: Thanks, Hannay.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Thee is welcome.
speaker_heading: SECOND MASON
dialog: Now you're here, Hannay, you can
dialog: see all of Bedlam without paying
dialog: your tupence. Can't he, lads?
text: They all nod. The first mason winks. Hannay pretends not to
text: have noticed the wink and the jocular air of the two others.
scene_heading: FIRST STONE MASON
dialog: Oh, aye -- indeed you can. All the
dialog: wonders of Bedlam for nothing.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: That I would like to see.
speaker_heading: THIRD STONE MASON (POINTING)
text: This corridor leads to the main
dialog: room.
scene_heading: SECOND STONE MASON
dialog: It's a little dark maybe, but If
dialog: you get to the end of it, Hannay,
dialog: you'll see an eyeful.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Down this way?
text: They nod.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: If thee don't mind I'll go and
dialog: look.
text: He starts down the long corridor and Is lost to view. The
text: three masons stand looking after him, grinning.
speaker_heading: FIRST MASON
dialog: He'll be back soon enough.
speaker_heading: SECOND MASON
text: (laughing and slapping his
dialog: leather apron)
dialog: Never fear.
speaker_heading: THIRD MASON
text: Like a shot from a gun.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - ST. MARY'S BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: Very little light comes into this dark corridor; only light
dialog: enough to show that at intervals there are strong, iron
text: barred doors like the entrance to cages of wild beasts. The
text: corridor is narrow and Hannay gropes his way through the
text: darkness toward a dim light at the very end.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Hannay as he gropes his way. His hand passes
text: from the solid wall onto the bars of one of the doors. Prom
text: the darkness of that room a white, ghastly hand Is suddenly
text: thrust and seizes his wrist. He struggles to pull away from
text: the clinging grip of these thin fingers. Finally, he pulls
text: away, but this exertion has brought him back against the door
text: on the other side of the corridor. His gaze is still fastened
text: on the door from which the hand was thrust, when a sudden
text: burst of maniacal laughter explodes against his ear. He
text: whirls.
text: REVERSE SHOT - An old woman with wild eyes and streaming
text: white hair thrusts her face between the bars at his shoulder.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - Hannay as he proceeds.
text: TRUCKING SHOT - As Hannay quickens his stride and looks from
text: one barred door to the next, eluding hands -which reach out
text: for him, fists that are shaken and all around him the
text: screaming and laughter of the incurably insane.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - As Hannay comes up to the door at the end of
text: the corridor. This door, which leads into the main room of
text: Bedlam, has a cross-barred window set into it.
text: LONG SHOT - Through the window from Hannay's ANGLE.
text: TRUCKING SHOT - As Hannay quickens his stride and looks from
text: one barred door to the next, eluding hands which reach out
text: for him, fists that are shaken and all around him the
text: screaming and laughter of the incurably insane.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - As Hannay comes up to the door at the end of
text: the corridor. This door, which leads into the main room of
text: Bedlam, has a cross-barred window set into it.
text: LONG SHOT - Through the window from Hannay's ANGLE. He sees
text: the sun-striped interior of the main room. At the far end
text: near the pillar where Long and Todd habitually sit, he can
dialog: see Nell.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - Hannay.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (calling softly)
dialog: Nell — Nell Bowen —
text: FULL SHOT - Nell at the pillar. She hears her name, turns
text: and than relaxes as again the chorus of the insane take up
text: the chant of her name.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: Nell Bowen — Nell Bowen --
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Hannay through the window. He, too, hears
text: the chanting of the name; is puzzled and confused.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: Nell Bowen -- Nell Bowen --
text: Finally the shouting subsides.
text: LONG SHOT - Nell Bowen as seen from Hannay's ANGLE.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Hannay again cups his hands and calls
text: softly.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Nell Bowen —
text: Again the queer and confused chanting of the name springs up.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - Nell. She listens, half confused, half
text: disgusted, only hoping for the irritating SOUND to stop. It
text: diminishes and dies away. She relaxes.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Hannay at the window. He tries again.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Nell Bowen —
text: Again the chant breaks out.
text: FULL SHOT - Nell. For the third time she hears the SOUND of
text: her name being called by myriad voices. She starts slowly for
dialog: the window.
text: FULL SHOT - The back of Hannay's head at the window and Nell
text: passing toward the other window.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: Nell Bowen -- Nell Bowen —
text: Hannay shouts her name, but it is a shout lost among the
text: others. She is about to pass out of sight when she looks
text: over. He reaches his arms through the bars and waves. She
text: catches the gesture and starts toward him. Some ten feet from
text: the window she stops and looks to the right. From his
text: position and the position where the CAMERA is set up, what
text: she sees cannot be seen.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (encouraging her)
dialog: Come Nell -- Nell —
text: She makes a sudden resolution and with one or two fearsome
text: glances to the right, comes quickly up to the window and
text: grabs hold of Hannay's arm.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - SHOOTING FROM the corridor TOWARD the main
text: room. Nell has come up to the barred door. The shadow of bars
text: falls across her face and on the floor. Across those shadows
text: another shadow moves, grim, grotesque and huge. As she and
text: Hannay talk the shadow keeps passing and repassing, partially
text: on the floor and partially on her face. She continues to
text: cling to his arm, holding onto this link to the sane world
text: with frantic intensity. Hannay comforts her.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You've come to take me away.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: No. There is no way.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Find Wilkes. He'll get me out
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I had thought of that. I'll seek
text: him out, but until he can free
dialog: thee, thee must be patient.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Patient? How can I be patient? I'm
dialog: terrified -- these people are like
dialog: beasts.
text: She glances off to the unseen figure on her right.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: So thou has that same thought --the
dialog: same thought as Sims.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: No. But they frighten mo. They're
dialog: dirty -- savage -- mindless —
dialog: disgusting --
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (patiently)
dialog: Thee wanted to help them — they put
dialog: thee here -- for trying to aid
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I still want to aid them, but I can
dialog: not here -- not here where they are
dialog: all about me. All I want is release
dialog: or a weapon to defend myself.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Thee has thy kindness and thy
dialog: courage -- they can be sword and
dialog: buckler to thee in this place.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I want better weapons -- I want
dialog: something more than my naked hands
dialog: to help me if there should be
dialog: trouble. Give me a weapon.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Thee knows that I carry no sword.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Anything.
text: Hannay shakes his head.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I carry nothing that could harm my
dialog: fellow creatures.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: Your trowel.
text: He looks down to where his trowel is stuck through his broad
dialog: leather belt.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: That is to build with.
speaker_heading: NELL
text: It has a point -- it has a handle.
text: Hannay shakes his head, again. Nell looks at him.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Would you have me maimed --
dialog: scratched —- scarred?
text: She looks at him.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: My face?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: The Lord will not let it happen,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Give me the trowel and I will not
dialog: let it happen.
text: He shakes his head again.
speaker_heading: NELL (MORE SOFTLY)
dialog: Look at my face again — look close
dialog: - shall it be scarred?
text: The Quaker stands looking at her for a moment, then he pulls
text: the trowel from his belt and hands it to her.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: God forgive me for what I do.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (seizing the handle of the
dialog: trowel)
dialog: Forgiven or not, at least I can
dialog: defend myself.
dialog: Now get to Master Wilkes. Wilkes
dialog: will have me out of here like that.
text: She snaps her fingers. Hannay looks at her, then starts away
text: past the camera.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE OUT
speaker_heading: OMITTED.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE IN
scene_heading: INT. JOHN LARD'S PUBLISHING HOUSE - AFTERNOON
text: Lard, himself, a square, well-fed man, is operating the
text: printing press. Between the rhythmic banging of the press, he
text: talks with Hannay.
speaker_heading: LARD
dialog: I haven't seen Wilkes for the last
dialog: week.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
text: He's never at home.
speaker_heading: LARD
dialog: He's electioneering.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: But where?
speaker_heading: LARD
dialog: Anywhere in the Kingdom.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: It is a matter of import — grave
text: import -- a woman's reason hangs on
dialog: It. I must see him.
speaker_heading: LARD
dialog: He has ordered pamphlets and
dialog: posters from me. He has to come
dialog: here. When he does, I'll tell him.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (starting to turn away)
dialog: I'll be back tomorrow.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - NIGHT
text: The great hall is feebly lit with a few rush lights hung on
text: the walls. But near the pillar is a pool of light from a wax
text: candle set up on Todd's desk. By its light, he is still
text: writing while Long stands beside him still engrossed in the
text: edged leaves of his book. He is flipping them past his thumb.
text: Well is seated on a stool near then, but with her back toward
text: then. At the next pillar Dorothea the Dove stands mutely
text: beautiful. The other inmates are dim moving bulks in the half
text: light. Suddenly from afar comes the booming of Big Ben
text: striking eight o'clock. Long lays down his book, takes a
text: greasy pack of cards from his side pocket and shows them to
text: Todd. Todd lays down his pen and clears the desk before him*
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (looking off at Nell)
dialog: We night ask her, Master Todd — she
dialog: seems quite lady-like — quite sane,
dialog: or as I might express myself before
dialog: the bar, compos mentis en lex.
text: Todd nods.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Then I shall ask her. We can have
dialog: Dan. The four of us can play
dialog: Paroli.
text: Todd nods. Long goes off.
text: TWO SHOT as Long comes up to Nell. He makes a graceful leg,
text: Nell looks up at him.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (formally)
dialog: ...Madame, would you care to join
dialog: us? We are going to play Paroli,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: That's kind of you. But I have no
dialog: money,
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Money? We play on our word.
speaker_heading: NELL (RISING)
dialog: I have a wealth of words; I
dialog: don't cheat but I warn you I'm not
dialog: above amending the mistakes of
dialog: fortune.
text: FULL SHOT - Todd, Dan the Dog at the desk as Nell and Long
text: come up, Todd rises quite reasonably, Dan the Dog crouches
text: over the chair with a vacuous grin. Long introduces them.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: This Mistress Brown, is Oliver
dialog: Todd, He will not speak to you, nor
dialog: to me, but there is no harm in him
dialog: and he writes and reasons well. And
dialog: this Is Dan, sometimes he fancies
dialog: himself a dog -- sometimes the
text: rider of a spirited horse, but he
dialog: has no malice in him and he
dialog: remembers how to play cards. I am
dialog: Long -- Sidney Long, the Crown
dialog: Solicitor — whose enemies will not
dialog: let him practice at the bar! I, the
dialog: most skilled of them all, I have
dialog: many enemies — many, many enemies.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (soothingly)
dialog: I understand.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: I should not have told you that.
dialog: But believe me, we who are near
dialog: this pillar are the safe ones --
dialog: the good ones — the wisest --that
dialog: is why they let us have the candle
dialog: - but the rest — you must be
dialog: careful of the rest.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (feeling her
dialog: skirt where
dialog: the trowel
dialog: is hidden)
dialog: I am careful.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Let us begin the play.
text: Nell seats herself and the rest also take their places around
text: the desk. Long shuffles the cards,
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: I will hold the bank -- twenty
dialog: thousand pounds —
text: He indicates an empty space on the desk, Nell looks at him
text: and then at the empty space and points to the empty space
text: before her.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Five pounds for a card,
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Five pounds.
text: He passes her a card, Todd holds up the five outstretched
text: fingers of one hand. Long passes him a card, Dan looks from
text: one empty space on the desk to the other and nods sagely,
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Five whippets, ten bassets, one
text: gaze hound.
text: Long looks at him and passes three cards, Nell looks at her
text: partners in this mad card game with a little smile on her
dialog: lips.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Does anyone wish another card?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Five pounds.
text: He passes her another card. Long looks to the others. They
text: shake their heads.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Banko.
text: Everyone turns up his cards and looks.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Paroli.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Fortune smiles at your first play.
dialog: What card?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (holding it up)
dialog: Knave of Spades.
speaker_heading: L0NG
dialog: You win.
text: They all pass back their cards. As Long shuffles then the
text: sound of heavy chains moving and a man groaning can be heard
text: in the darkness. Nell looks off. The others pay no attention.
text: Long deals. Todd holds up three fingers.
speaker_heading: DAN
text: Eight bulldogs.
text: Again the painful groan is heard from the darkness.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: A poor wretch — Sims gave him a
dialog: dose of iron this morning. The
text: chains scruff his flesh.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Will the warders not help him?
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: They've heard too many groans to
dialog: bother.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: But what about you? Don't you ever
dialog: help the others?
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Why should we help? We are the
dialog: people of the pillar.
text: The groaning sounds out again.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: A card?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Wait.
text: She listens to the sound of the groan.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I can't play with that going on.
dialog: May I have the candle?
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Be careful of the straw.
text: Nell picks up the candle and starts toward the direction of
text: the groaning sound.
text: LONG SHOT - Nell, as she, threads her way between the
text: sleeping figures of the loonies.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Nell stops to listen, trying to orient
text: herself by the sound of the groaning. She starts off.
text: MED. CLOSE DOLLY SHOT -Nell following the sound of the
text: groaning. Suddenly, it stops. She stops with it. Then it
text: begins again. Again she goes forwards
text: CLOSE SHOT - Nell. She pauses. The groaning is very near. She
text: looks around her at the huddled figures, lifting the candle
text: high, trying to distinguish among them the injured man. She
text: holds the candle in her left hand and looks to the left. From
text: the right comes the clang and jangle of heavy chains. She
text: whirls, her right hand-seeking the trowel.
text: CLOSE SHOT - from Nell's ANGLE. Right before her stands a
text: half-naked lunatic encumbered with his "dose of iron." This
text: is a curious and frightening contraption of steel plate and
text: chain, a terrifying travesty of chivalrous armor. For a
text: moment, they stand en tableau, Nell with the candle upraised
text: on her left hand, the trowel held dagger-wise in her right;
text: then the man groans.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Do your, chains hurt you?
text: The man nods. Nell places the candle warily on the ground,
text: clearing a space in the straw with her foot before him. Then
text: she turns to the man again.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Where does it hurt?
text: The man gestures with his head toward his restricted elbow.
text: With her free hand Nell touches it.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Here?
text: The man nods.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Would it help if I put a bit of
dialog: cloth there to ease the chain?
text: Again he nods. She tears a little strip from her fichu and
text: with her left hand, starts to stuff it under the chain at the
text: man's elbow. It is awkward, one-handed. She draws back, looks
text: at him, then puts the trowel down on the ground next to the
text: candle. With her two hands, she easily tucks the cloth under
text: the chain, then tears another strip and oases the burden on
text: his other elbow.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Better?
text: He turns his head painfully. Nell tears a third strip and
text: tucks it in at the collar of the contraption. He smiles. She
text: smiles back at him, bends to pick up the candle and starts
text: back toward the pillar.
text: MED* CLOSE SHOT - the pillar. In silhouette can be seen the
text: three figures of Dan the Dog, Todd and Long. Beyond them,
text: Nell's candle can be seen advancing through the darkness,
text: then finally she herself is disclosed In this moving pool of
text: light as she comes up to the desk and sets the candle down.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: He's quiet now. That was kind of
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: It's just that I don't care for sad
dialog: music with my game of paroli. Let
dialog: us play.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: A card?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Five pounds.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Any others?
text: LONG SHOT - SHOOTING PAST the group of card players TOWARD
text: the main door. Dorothea, and her pillar are in the
text: perimeter of the candlelight. Out of the darkness behind
text: her, his hands folded behind his back, Sims appears. He
text: watches the card players for a moment. Then, almost absently,
text: he lifts his hand and pats Dorothea's cheek.
text: CLOSE SHOT - the four card players, as Sims comes quietly up
text: to them. They look up.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: A very pleasant group you make,
dialog: dear people.
text: They all look at him without answering, Dan crouches away,
text: making soft, placating SOUNDS, He disappears into the
dialog: darkness.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: It's so nice to find you here among
dialog: the upper classes, Mistress Bowen.
dialog: But then it is exactly where I
dialog: expected you to be.
dialog: It's a law of physics -- the
dialog: lighter elements, like scum, rise
text: to the top.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I thank you, Master Sims -- a
dialog: delicate compliment —-
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (bowing his acknowledgment)
dialog: I see that you have joined what
dialog: little we have of society -- the
dialog: group around the pillar. Is this
dialog: the brotherhood your Quaker friend
dialog: preaches? Or perhaps you're afraid
text: among the rest — those dark shadows
dialog: I see about me --
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I'm not afraid.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Then you've forgotten.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Forgotten what?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Forgotten that you were going to
dialog: reform Bedlam -- cleanliness and
dialog: soft beds for the delight of the
dialog: patients -- good treatment — Well,
dialog: you've been here a week, Mistress
dialog: Bowen and your only friends are
dialog: these — our nobility.
dialog: (sneering)
dialog: The brotherhood of man --
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: And give me clean straw -- I'll
dialog: make beds for them. Bandages — and
dialog: I'll bind their wounds — water and
dialog: soap --
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: That would delight me to too. You
dialog: shall have water -- you shall have
dialog: soap -- you shall have straw
dialog: enough. I hope you make good use of
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I shall. Never fear.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: But now I leave you to dream about
dialog: these Augean labors. May you find
dialog: your dreams sweet and cleanly.
text: He turns and goes toward the door. On his way, he again
text: passes Dorothea and again pats her cheek.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: EXT. ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - EARLY MORNING
text: A few people pass along the street.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - EARLY MORNING
text: CLOSE SHOT - Oliver Todd is busily writing. The camera is set
text: up on his back.
speaker_heading: GRAY'S VOICE
dialog: But where is it — you promised a
dialog: chapter for today.
text: The CAMERA BEGINS TO PULL BACK TO Master John Gray, stationer
text: and publisher, a well-fed man. He is bending over Oliver,
text: berating him testily, Sidney Long, his book in his hand,
text: slouches nearby.
speaker_heading: GRAY
dialog: I appeal to you. Master Long — is
dialog: it fair? I support his family —
dialog: feed his children — even pay my
dialog: tupence to come in and get my
dialog: script and it is not ready.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: We've been busy. We've been helping
dialog: Mistress Bowen.
speaker_heading: GRAY
dialog: Mistress Bowen — who is she?
dialog: Long points.
text: LONG SHOT. A thin crowd of people are gathered at one place.
text: The camera is set up to show the crowd but not what they are
dialog: working at.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Nell, in the middle of the crowd of loonies.
text: They are stupidly staring while she bulks together a heap of
text: straw and covers it as neatly as she can with a thin blanket.
text: Beyond her, other similar pallets can be seen neatly
text: arranged along the wall. The loonies watch her stupidly.
text: She finishes making up the pallet, dusts off nor knees and
text: starts down the hall.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - Gray, Long and Todd.
speaker_heading: GRAY
dialog: Oh - a new female warder -- now
dialog: about a next chapter —
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Not a warder, Master Gray -- an
dialog: inmate like ourselves who does all
dialog: she can to help her fellow
dialog: sufferers.
speaker_heading: GRAY
dialog: What can she do?
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Look, I'll show you.
speaker_heading: INSERT
text: THE PAGES OF THE BOOK as they flutter past, revealing that a
text: series of drawings have been made; drawings which are
text: animated by the movement of the pages.
text: These animated drawings show a girl feeding a person in bed;
text: reading to a man chained to a wall. As the pages flutter
text: past, Long's voice can be heard.
speaker_heading: LONG'S VOICE
dialog: What can she do you ask? She can
dialog: feed those who have not wit enough
dialog: to feed themselves -- she can wash
dialog: the helpless — cheer, the
text: despondent — she can -- she is
dialog: an angel in this darkness.
text: BACK TO SCENE.
speaker_heading: GRAY
dialog: Very interesting -- but this book
dialog: you have — those drawings-
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Oh -- the pictures — you don't
dialog: half their wonder, Master Gray —
dialog: (enthusiastically)
dialog: If I could only get a light behind
dialog: these pages I could throw them
text: large as life up on the wall.
speaker_heading: GRAY
dialog: Aye —- that's not a bad notion one
dialog: could charge admission. You could
dialog: even tell the story Todd's writing
dialog: that way.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (in the manner of one
dialog: imparting a secret)
dialog: You forget -- it's because of
dialog: these pictures that I'm here --
dialog: that and because I'm the best
dialog: lawyer in England, I, the most
dialog: skilled of them all.
speaker_heading: GRAY
dialog: Oh, yes, that's true.
text: He turns to Todd.
speaker_heading: GRAY
dialog: And you, Oliver — You'd best
dialog: finish that chapter by tomorrow or
dialog: I'll withdraw my support from your
dialog: family. Understand?
text: Without, turning, Todd nods his head.
speaker_heading: OMITTED.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Nell, as she comes along the corridor
text: behind the pillars. She passes Dan lounging against a pillar
text: and stops to-speak to him.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Dan, did you chance to see a
dialog: trowel?
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: A trowel? I'll build you a wall — a
dialog: wall that high.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Master Long, have you seen a
dialog: trowel?
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: I beg your pardon.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: A trowel — a mason's instrument. I
dialog: mislaid it some days ago. I'd like
dialog: it back.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Oh, yes -- a trowel.
text: He looks suspiciously at Nell.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I'm not mad, Master Long. I had a
dialog: trowel.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (comfortingly as to a
dialog: child)
dialog: Oh, certainly, Mistress Bowen.
dialog: We'll help you find it.
text: Nell shrugs hopelessly at him and smiles.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You think I'm mad. Sometimes I
dialog: think I've gone mad myself,
dialog: scrubbing and making beds and all
dialog: for people who don't even know that
dialog: I'm trying to help them.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: They know.
scene_heading: INT. DOOR OF THE MAIN ROOM - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: Sims, attended by two guards, comes through and starts
text: down the room. He comes up to the group around the pillar.
text: Dan is slightly in his way. He raises his arm
text: threateningly. Dan merely looks at him with a stupid sort
text: of interest but no fear. Sims looks puzzled for a moment,
text: then pushes the idiot out of his way..
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Good morning, Mistress Bowen —
text: Nell nods to him in dignified greeting.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (looking about)
dialog: What a happy place this has become.
dialog: Everything is so much cleaner --
dialog: the idiots even have their faces
dialog: washed.
dialog: Only a little time and this
dialog: wonderful change in Bedlam! What
dialog: wonders will you not accomplish in
dialog: a life time.
text: He makes a mock bow.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Madame, you are to be
text: congratulated.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I want only to reward you. Didn't
dialog: you ask for a separate sleeping
dialog: apartment?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I'd like to sleep in peace,.
text: The main room is noisy at night.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: And I have a room for you -- a
dialog: prettier chamber -- if you will
dialog: come with me --
text: Nell rises.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: Two guards with cold chisels, hammers and bolt clippers are
text: snapping chains, the links of which come through holes in the
text: wall and are passed around a stone pillar in the corridor.
scene_heading: INT. TOM THE TIGER'S CAGE - DAY
text: Tom reacts in surprise as first one chain and then another
text: falls to the floor. He takes a great draught of air into his
text: lungs. He moves cautiously, feeling his freedom. His eyes
text: move wildly.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: TRUCKING SHOT - Nell, Sims and the two guards behind them.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Unfortunately, you will have to
dialog: share this comfortable apartment
dialog: with one other. I'm sure you won't
dialog: mind that•
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Better one than a hundred.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - to show Nell, Sims and the two guards
text: approaching the cage. Sims takes out a key,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: This is your new chamber, my dear
dialog: lady.
text: Inside the cage the gigantic maniac is beginning to move away
text: from the wall, still tremulous with his new freedom; his
text: movements hesitant.
text: CLOSE TWO SHOT - Nell and Sims.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (with a gesture)
dialog: Won't you enter?
text: Nell looks at him.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You've not driven me mad yet, Sims.
dialog: I would not go in there.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: And I wanted so much to please you-
text: Nell starts to turn away. Sims catches hold of her elbow.
speaker_heading: SIMS (CONT'D)
dialog: Wait. This was to show you — that
dialog: all those mawkish theories you've
dialog: learned from the Quaker are lies.
dialog: Men are not brothers — men are not
dialog: born kind and good — even the
dialog: mindless ones are savage and must
dialog: be ruled with force.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I know your thoughts on the matter,
dialog: Sims, they do not interest me.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (disregarding this)
dialog: With the others, yes, you could
dialog: prove the little value of
dialog: gentleness — but look at this man --
dialog: look at him and tell me that kind
dialog: words and tender deeds can rule him
dialog: -- look!
text: He crushes her elbow in his hand to emphasize his point.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I am looking — it proves nothing.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: But you don't dare enter the cage
dialog: with him -- that proves much --
dialog: that proves the falseness of all
dialog: that you have come to believe.
dialog: NELL It does not.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Well, then, enter the cage, gentle
dialog: him with a word -- conquer him with
dialog: kindness -- or admit that your
dialog: Quaker lies.
text: Nell looks directly at him, then, firming her will, she takes
text: a step toward the door.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (taunting)
dialog: You would enter.
text: Nell nods. He opens the door wide enough for her to pass
text: through. She hesitates, then steps slowly into the cage. Sims
text: clangs shut the door behind her..
scene_heading: INT. TOM THE TIGER'S CAGE - DAY
text: In his first astonishment Tom retreats from her. She stands
text: still, a pace within the door, and looks at him. He takes a
text: few steps toward her, almost as if impelled with animal
text: curiosity. He circles to one side, then hunches his great
text: shoulders. His whole body grows tense like that of some tiger
text: who stiffens before he leaps.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: My friend, you do not wish to hurt
dialog: me, nor I you.
dialog: It is the first gentle word spoken to him in years• Before
text: his madness can triumph over his surprise, Nell walks to a
text: small chair, catches up her skirts and seats herself.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Perhaps you would like to talk. I
dialog: will listen to you.
text: The gigantic maniac places himself before her and tries to
text: talk. Only inarticulate gasping sounds come from his mouth.
text: He gesticulates wildly. Then again he breaks into a frenzy of
text: gasping, disarticulated sound.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I know -- you are trying to
dialog: remember — some day you will.
text: He is silent.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (comfortingly)
dialog: You will remember -- some day you
dialog: will remember.
text: She looks up at Sims.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Sims. He shrugs and turns away leaving the
text: cage door unlocked behind him.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: INT. JOHN LARD'S PUBLISHING HOUSE - DAY
text: Wilkes and his political supporters crowd the little
text: publishing house. Most of them are admiring a poster hanging
text: up on the wall which reads:
dialog: Your Votes, Poll and Interest are desired for
speaker_heading: JOHN WILKES
dialog: Citizen and Joiner, to be
dialog: Chamberlain
dialog: He having more creditors than any other person.
text: A little away from this group stand John Wilkes, Hannay and
dialog: Varney.
speaker_heading: VARNEY
text: — and the bailiff came. She went
dialog: with him to Bedlam.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: Apparently Sims fears an
dialog: investigation. Men have rid
dialog: themselves of unwanted wives by
dialog: that sweet expedient but it
dialog: takes Sims to forestall criticism
dialog: with imprisonment.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I will not believe such ill even of
text: him — but she is there.
dialog: I have spoken with her. She's as
dialog: sane as thee or me.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: Mistress Nell with that bright,
dialog: quick mind of hers -- saner than
text: either a politician or a Quaker.
dialog: This is still England, Hannay, and
dialog: we have laws here — laws of right
dialog: and justice. I shall see that Sims
dialog: feels their full weight,
text: He pats the Quaker's shoulder.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: We'll have Nell out of Bedlam in a
dialog: twinkle -- never fear --
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM -. ST. MARK'S OF BETHLEHEM - NIGHT
text: FULL SHOT - Two maniacs are seated together on the floor. One
text: has a book in his hand, but from it he reads incongruous
dialog: verses.
speaker_heading: FIRST MANIAC
dialog: Let Hull, house of Hull rejoice
dialog: with Subis a bird called the Spight
dialog: which, breaks the eagle's eggs. Let
text: Scroop, house of Scroop rejoice
dialog: with Fig-Wine-Palmi primarium
dialog: vinum. Not so - Palrai-primum is
dialog: the word. Let Hollingstead, house
text: of Hollingstead rejoice with
dialog: Sissitietaeris herb of good
dialog: fellowship. Praise the name of the
dialog: Lord September 1762.
text: While he reads the other maniac keeps shouting.
speaker_heading: SECOND MANIAC
dialog: That's not right -- that's not
dialog: right -- that's not the word of
dialog: Truth -- the word of Truth is
dialog: peace.
text: With this last remark he tears the Bible from the other's
text: hand and the two begin to fight madly for its possession. In
text: the struggle the Bible is torn and its leaves scattered.
text: Nell, with Tom the Tiger following her, comes into the scene.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Oh, Wallace — Edward — Stop!
text: She takes the Bible from them. Tom gets on his knees to pick
text: up the torn pages, handing them to her one by one.
speaker_heading: SECOND MANIAC
dialog: We were fighting over the word
dialog: peace.
text: Nell grins.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Wiser men than you have fought
dialog: about it, Edward.
speaker_heading: SIMS' VOICE
dialog: Mistress Bowen --
text: She turns. Sims comes into the scene attended by his two
dialog: warders.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: — a word with you.
text: She steps quietly forward.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I have good news.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - showing that behind Sims and Nell is the
text: pillar near which Todd's desk is placed. Todd is busily
text: working and Long, as usual, is leaning against the desk,
text: thumbing his book of motion pictures.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: You are to have a new hearing
dialog: before the commission.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (eagerly)
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: When it pleases the Commission.
text: She starts to turn away very disappointed. Sims takes her
dialog: elbow.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: It will please them to have your
dialog: hearing tomorrow afternoon. I'm
dialog: delighted for your sake.
text: Nell gives him a quick, direct look.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Indeed, I am so pleased -- you've
dialog: so endeared yourself to me -- that
dialog: I want to do everything possible to
dialog: make sure your hearing is a success
dialog: -- that you will be released --
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (briefly)
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: In fact, I have ordered our most
dialog: beneficient remedy for you.
text: At Nell's foot, Tom the Tiger reacts to this; begins to
text: crouch away. Nell puts her hand down, touches his shoulder
text: and quiets him.
text: TWO SHOT - Long and Todd. For the first time, Todd lays down
text: his pen and turns to listen. Long's face is a study in
dialog: frightened Interest.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - Sims, Nell, Long, Todd and Tom. Sims looks
text: around at Long and Todd, savoring their fright. Nell also
text: looks at them. What she sees in their faces puzzles her.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: A remedy, Master Sims?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Have they --
dialog: (pointing to Long and
dialog: Todd)
dialog: not told you?
text: Nell shakes her head.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: It is my own invention -- a cure --
dialog: a specific for the lax and
dialog: wandering mind.
text: He takes Tom's shoulder and moves him a little so that the
text: light falls on the kneeling maniac's face.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Look at him. When he came here he
dialog: had but one concern -- to remember
dialog: something he had forgotten -- I
dialog: tried to help him with my remedy --
text: Sims sighs deeply.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Perhaps I was not drastic enough.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I need no cure.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: Just to be sure, Mistress Bowen.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I've given you an invitation. Now I
dialog: must speak as your physician. Come
dialog: with me.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I'll take my chances with the
dialog: Commissioners. I need no cure,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: As the Apothecary General of
dialog: Bedlam, I order you.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: If you insist upon it, I must force
dialog: you.
text: He takes a step toward her.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Force me? Here? Look around you.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: Do you think your friends will help
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I have helped them.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: You expect them to band together
dialog: and overwhelm me. If they could
dialog: reason so, they would not be here.
text: He comes closer to her.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I warn you. They know me. They know
dialog: that I've helped them -- been kind
dialog: to them --
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (sneering)
dialog: And so they love you and will aid
dialog: you -- again that Quaker nonsense --
text: He comes right up to her and seizes her wrist. She pulls
text: back. For a moment they stand silently, pulling in opposite
text: directions, then his superior strength begins to tell and she
text: is forced to take a step toward him. From the darkness two
text: arms suddenly reach in and seize Sims. He drops Nell's wrist
text: and tries to yank himself free. A whole group of lunatics
text: crowd in upon him, grasping him with their hands. Nell backs
text: away from him, one hand restraining Tom.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Let go of me.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (stepping to Nell's side)
dialog: Hold him.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Warders -- help -- warders --
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Shout away, Master Sims. Shout
dialog: away. Your men are used to Bedlam
dialog: and its noises -- they have heard
dialog: too many cries to pay attention to
dialog: one.
text: Sims sees the logic in her speech and keeps silent.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: As for me, I'll just borrow your
dialog: keys, Master Sims.
text: She takes them from his hand.
text: LONG SHOT - As Nell, the keys in her hand, runs toward the
text: main door. Todd sees her and rises from his place at the desk
text: and goes quickly after her. At the main door he catches up to
text: her as she inserts the key into the lock.
text: TWO SHOT - Todd and Nell.
speaker_heading: TODD
text: (as he lays a restraining
dialog: hand on Nell's wrist)
dialog: No — Mistress Bowen — not that way.
text: There's a warder in the hall
text: and another at the front door.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: But you heard him threaten me with
dialog: the treatment. I can't stay here.
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: There's a little window that is
text: left unbarred —
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I think I know that window, Master
dialog: Todd. You are mad if you think I'll
dialog: try to climb through that window as
dialog: Colby did, and others before him, I
dialog: dare say.
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: I'm not mad, Mistress Bowen — I'm
dialog: not like the others here. I've been
dialog: placed here, by my family to keep
dialog: me from drink - so that I may write
dialog: and support them. I know that
dialog: little window is dangerous --
dialog: designed for a death trap -- but
dialog: those who tried before were men of
dialog: small strength.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: I'm no Hercules
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: Tom could lift you through that
dialog: window.
text: Nell considers this, the nods.
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: You can go through that door
text: They start off in that direction.
text: MED. PULL SHOT - Sims as he still struggles in the grasp of
text: his captors. He is addressing himself to Long who still
text: stands before him.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Long — you've more reason than the
dialog: rest and I expect more from you —
dialog: you know that there are chains to
dialog: bind you and rods to beat out the
dialog: punishment you'll get for this. You
dialog: understand that don't you?
text: Long nods mutely.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Then go to the door — call the
dialog: warders for me -- or else you'll
dialog: feel the weight of those chains and
dialog: the bite of the rods on your back.
text: Long hesitates.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Do as I say.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (hesitating and looking
dialog: around; frightened)
dialog: But the rest — what will they do to
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Are you afraid of their vengeance?
dialog: They couldn't think far enough
dialog: ahead for that. They are lunatics.
dialog: They have been tried and found
dialog: incompetent by fair trial.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Trial? Quo Warranto — corpus
dialog: delicti — cum grano salis.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Ah yes, I'd forgotten you were a
dialog: lawyer.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: A lawyer, air? I am a Judge.
dialog: (in great excitement)
dialog: I am a judge —
text: (levelling his finger in
dialog: Sims' face)
dialog: I, the most skilled of them all —
dialog: and you shall be judged — judged I
dialog: say.
text: There is a general movement of excitement among the lunatics.
text: They move curiously forward; some grinning, some snickering
text: in excitement.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: Bailiffs, hold that man! He
text: disturbs the court.
text: Three or four lunatics, including one of the women, fasten
text: themselves onto Sims' arms. A woman maniac begins to twitter,
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Try him — try him,
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: A fair trial for Master Sims —- a
dialog: fair trial —
text: Sims struggles in the grasp of his captors.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE -As Nell, followed by Tom and Todd, passes the
text: struggling group, Sims reaches out one hand to her and calls,
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Mistress Bowen — speak to them --
dialog: please speak to them -- I beseech
dialog: you.
text: Nell pauses, looks at him and then laughingly says.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Give Master Sims a fair trial.
text: She turns and with Tom following her, walks across to the
text: small door near the cage. She unlocks it and followed by Tom
text: disappears into the darkness of the corridor.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: EXT. THE ROOFS OF ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - NIGHT
text: CLOSE SHOT - Nell and Tom come out onto the window ledge.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Tom -- you must get up on the roof.
dialog: You are to go first, then you must
dialog: pull me up — up — you understand?
text: He nods, Nell throws open the window and gives him a little
text: pat on the shoulder. He starts to climb out.
text: Evidently, he has found a hand-hold above him as first his
text: head, then his torso and finally his legs disappear, Nell
text: edges out to the outer ledge of the window and lifts her hand
dialog: up,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Tom.
scene_heading: EXT. THE ROOF GUTTER - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM -- NIGHT
text: Tom kneeling in the gutter. He has one hand extended down
text: over the edge and this hand is wound tight around Nell's
text: upraised wrist.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Tom —
text: He starts to pull. She lets her feet slide off the window
text: ledge and is suspended above the street.
text: CLOSE SHOT - PROCESS - Tom and Nell. The strain of pulling
text: Nell up brings Tom's head back so that he sees the stars
text: above him. He looks at the stars, forgetting all else. He has
text: forgotten about Nell. She swings suspended by only one hand
text: four stories above the hard cobbles of the street,
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - Nell.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Tom — Tom —
text: TWO SHOT - Nell, frantic, but still holding her voice to a
dialog: whisper.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Tom — Tom —
text: Suddenly, comprehension dawns on Tom's face. With a
text: great effort he pulls her up and she scrambles safely onto
text: the gutter. She crouches there, breathing heavily, Tom
text: looks at the stars. Then she starts off over the roofs,
dialog: leading Tom.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN HALL - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM HOSPITAL - NIGHT
text: LONG SHOT. In the dimly lighted room pandemonium reigns
text: without let or license. The insane patients, shouting in
text: excitement, are in a great crowd about the pillar where Long
dialog: and Todd habitually stay.
text: Todd's desk has boon converted into a bar of justice and
text: behind it sits a stout lunatic with a dirty sheep's skin
text: spread over his head to Imitate a judge's wig. Behind him
text: stands a thin, sombre-looking idiot who makes exact splitting
text: motions in front of his face.
speaker_heading: IDIOT
dialog: I am Solomon the Wise -- split him
text: in two -- split him in two.
text: A jury of twenty crazy men and women are herded together by
text: Don the Dog to the right of the desk. At the left, surrounded
text: by other lunatics, held by two crazy bailiffs is Master Sims.
text: Long, himself, is the crown advocate. Oliver Todd, the sanest
text: of them all, is evidently acting for the accused.
scene_heading: MED. FULL SHOT - Long.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (pointing an accusing
dialog: finger)
dialog: And so, Milords, we have brought
dialog: this man before you to answer for
dialog: those crimes — these crimes which I
dialog: shall number for you —• neglect —
text: A great shout rises from the lunatics.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: -- cruelty —-
text: Another yell that grows fiercer arises.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: (as he continues more
dialog: rapidly)
text: — whippings — beatings — dirty
dialog: straw to lie upon —
text: Some of the lunatics dance around Sims, tearing off their
text: garments to show the marks from the lash; the bruises from
dialog: the club.
speaker_heading: LONG
text: A great shout rises and above it
text: can be heard the clanking of the
dialog: chains from those still fastened to
dialog: the walls•
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Starvation -- stealing our food —
dialog: for all these crimes, Milords and
dialog: Gentlemen of the Jury, I ask
dialog: Justice.
text: A roar from the crowd follows. Sims tries to speak but his
text: words are drowned out by the shouting of the maniacs. They
text: swarm about him. Some pluck at his clothing with their
text: fingers. He goes down to his knees, the lunatics rain blows
text: on him.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Sims. His face is battered. He is shaken by the
text: blows and kicks of his charges. He tries to make himself
text: heard, pleading with outstretched arms and finally his words
text: can be heard.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I beg you — let me speak — lot me
dialog: talk.
text: It is to no avail. They surge toward him again and again the
text: kicks and blows rain down.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: INT. QUAKER MEETING HOUSE - NIGHT
text: After the hurly-burly shouting and screaming of Bedlam here
text: is perfect peace. The monotone of the Quaker costumes, the
text: orderly lines of the benches and the deep quiet with which
dialog: those simple people commune with God give a feeling of great
text: peace. Hannay sits at the end of one bench near the door.
text: Suddenly, that door bursts open and Nell stands there, wildly
text: disheveled by her flight, her eyes and face glowing with
text: excitement. She takes the few quick steps necessary to bring
text: her to Hannay's side.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: William —
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Shh. This is God's house.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (lowering her tone)
dialog: I broke free from Bedlam.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: But thee should not have run from
dialog: there -- thee were to have a new
dialog: hearing tomorrow.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: If I lived that long. He had some
dialog: treatment that he was to give me —
dialog: a treatment that made even the
dialog: maddest of them shudder to hear --
dialog: I ran --and they have him now.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Who has him?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: The loonies — they've seized him
text: and are trying him in mockery--
dialog: they will kill him. It is what he
dialog: deserves.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Hush. Thee should not speak of any
dialog: man that way. Have they killed
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: They will — they will --
text: Hannay starts to rise and takes her arm.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Then thee must go to him. Thee must
dialog: speak to the poor afflicted ones
dialog: and save him.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: Save him?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Can one know his mind? Can one know
dialog: what sickness lies in it? As thee
dialog: were kind to those in Bedlam, thee
dialog: must be kind to those whose
dialog: sickness forces them to hurt their
dialog: fellow man.
text: Nell hesitates.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Is it not the same thing? Has Sims
dialog: not a madness thee can pity?
text: Nell thinks, then nods.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Come -- we shall get Wilkes — he
dialog: will help us —
text: He starts to lead her from the Quaker Meeting House.
scene_heading: INT. ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM HOSPITAL - NIGHT
text: The rush lights have burned low and only two portions of the
text: place are well illuminated; the pillar around which the
text: main group of the insane are gathered around Sims and the
text: other pillar where Dorothea, the Dove stands in deep
dialog: quietude.
text: CLOSE THREE SHOT - Sims as he faces Todd and Long. Behind
text: him is the spectral figure of Solomon. Sims has been
text: pretty well battered. His wig is gone. His face is dirty
text: and bruised.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I did not want to hurt you. I did
dialog: not want to put chains
dialog: on you — to starve you --to steal
dialog: from you.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: But you did. And now it is our
dialog: turn.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: You will not dare harm me.
dialog: They'll load you with chains,
dialog: scourge you with the cat. Then you
dialog: shall really know what cruelty can
dialog: be. I warn you.
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: Your vengeance is not our present
dialog: concern. What you have done
dialog: concerns us -- why you did it.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: I told you -- I had to -- even
dialog: as you do things because you have
dialog: to do them -- even when you know
dialog: they're wrong --
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: But why?
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (still addressing himself to Todd)
dialog: Can't you understand? This is a
dialog: great world and strong men with
dialog: great advantages rule over it and
dialog: men like me are frightened -- born
dialog: poor and misshapen —
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: Did you beat us out of fright Sims
dialog: did you starve us out of fear?
speaker_heading: SOLOMON
text: Split him in two.
text: The crowd moves forward, yelling. Long and Todd hold them
text: back with outstretched arms. Sims cringes.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Is that why you still threaten us
dialog: if harm comes to you?
speaker_heading: SIMS
text: (turning to him with a
dialog: snarl)
dialog: I warn you -- the chains —- the
dialog: rods —
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: You spoke of your fear —
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: It is a great world -- a world of
dialog: force and pomp and power —-
dialog: and I was frightened at my
dialog: littleness - my ugliness and my
dialog: poverty.
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: And for that you struck and starved
dialog: --
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: (desperately)
text: It is the frightened dog that bites
dialog: -- and I had to fawn and toady and
dialog: make a mock of myself so that all I
dialog: could hear was the world laughing
dialog: at my ugliness, I was afraid.
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: You had to strike us.
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Yes -- yes -- can't you understand?
speaker_heading: TODD
dialog: I understand.
speaker_heading: SOLOMON
text: Split him in two.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: And our punishment —
speaker_heading: SIMS
dialog: Let me go. There will be no
dialog: punishment.
speaker_heading: TODD
text: He is sane. There is a fear in him
text: — a fear that strikes out -- that
text: claws and tears at the world like a
text: singed cat. He is sane.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: He will not punish us. He is sane.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: This man is sane.
speaker_heading: SOLOMON
text: Split him in two.
text: The crowd surges toward Sims, but Long interposes and
text: stretches out his arms to stop them,
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Wait -- wait.
text: He is given a little space and a little quiet in which to
dialog: talk,
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: This man has been judged sane -- he
dialog: has no place here — he must leave --
dialog: you cannot harm him -- it is the
dialog: order of the court that he is sane
dialog: and that he shall be free.
text: The loonies nods their heads sagely. This seems a proper way
dialog: of settling the matter.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: Bailiffs, release the prisoner!
text: The bailiffs let go of Sims. He can hardly believe that he
text: has been freed. He looks apprehensively about him, at the
text: faces of his charges and then begins cautiously, slowly to
text: back toward the door.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - As Sims backs away his course brings him past
text: the pillar where Dorothea the Dove stands in her usual statue
text: like immobility. He starts to back away past her, moving
text: cautiously, keeping his eyes on the gaping lunatics who
text: follow him. As he comes close to Dorothea she puts her hand
text: into her bosom and draws forth the trowel. With a calm,
text: almost majestic movement, she plunges it into Sims' back. He
text: falls to the floor, sprawling, and the lunatics crowding
text: about him hide him from view.
text: LOW CAMERA SETUP - Showing the loonies around Sims, They are
text: frightened at what they have done and begin to move away,
text: some furtively, some running.
speaker_heading: LONG
dialog: They will punish all of us. The
text: Apothecary General is dead.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Sims as he moves weakly.
speaker_heading: LONG'S VOICE
dialog: We must hide him —— somewhere we
dialog: must hide him -- so that they will
dialog: never know --
text: Many hands come into the shot and the body is lifted up.
text: FULL, SHOT - A group of the loonies as they carry Sims
text: through the main hall.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - The door near Tom is cage. As the loonies
text: come up to it, Long takes a key from Sims' pocket, opens the
text: door and they pass through it.
text: DOLLY SHOT - As the lunatics carry Sims through the corridor
text: of the incurably insane, pandemonium reigns.
scene_heading: INT. THE INTERSECTION - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - NIGHT
dialog: Here are the trowels, the mortar and the stones left by the
text: masons, as well as the unfinished wall. The lunatics cane
text: into the shot bearing the figure of Sims. With a great effort
text: they put him behind the wall, propping him up in an upright
text: position and silently with many a glance over their shoulders
text: they begin to wall him up. When the stones have reached his
text: chest his eyes open.
text: Almost as if frightened by this, the lunatics hasten,
text: throwing up the blocks of stone, slapping the mortar into
text: place. The wall rises above his head and he is blocked out.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE OUT
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE IN
scene_heading: INT. THE MAIN HALL - ST. MARY'S OF BETHLEHEM - DAY
text: Along the walls the lunatics are lined- up. There are
text: many warders watching them. In the center of the hall,
text: walking toward the camera is a small group of people
dialog: including a warder, the Chief Commissioner of Lunacy,
text: another gentleman, John Wilkes, Hannay and Nell Bowen.
scene_heading: MED. FULL SHOT - The group.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: (to Wilkes)
dialog: -- and when we got here, Master
dialog: Wilkes, he was gone. Long said he
dialog: just left -- disappeared —-
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: That is all I can get out of Long,
dialog: but I know they must
dialog: have killed him.
text: DOLLY SHOT - As the group advances toward the little door
text: near Tom's cage.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: But it's so preposterous, Master
dialog: Wilkes — a man like Sims doesn't
text: just disappear.
text: The little party has reached the door and they pass through
text: it into the corridor. The warder leads the way with a lamp.
scene_heading: INT. THE CORRIDOR - DAY
text: MED. FULL SHOT - As the party proceeds through the
text: intersection. They come to the intersection and stand.
text: Hannay crosses to the wall behind which Sims' body is buried.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: -— and that's precisely why he
dialog: disappeared. They tried him,
dialog: found him guilty of sanity and let
dialog: him go.
dialog: Can you imagine what was in his
dialog: mind -- the mind of this man who
dialog: had sworn on all that was holy to
dialog: aid and comfort these people --
dialog: can you imagine his feeling of
dialog: guilt? I think that is what drove
text: him to run away.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: They killed him.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Hannay. With professional interest he looks at
text: the masonry. It seems rough and badly done. He puts his hand
text: up and feels the mortar, then looks at his hand. His hand is
text: wet. He taps the wall. It is hallow. He turns as if to speak
text: to the others of his discovery, then pauses to listen as the
text: Chief Commissioner's voice drones on.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: -- killed him and hid his body
dialog: somewhere --
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: You can't prove that without
text: finding his body.
speaker_heading: CHIEF COMMISSIONER
dialog: .......We shall find it and we
dialog: shall punish them.
speaker_heading: WILKES
dialog: Yes, I know -— the chains -- the
dialog: beatings -- I tell you it's no
dialog: good. What you need here is a
dialog: better man to fill the post that
text: Sims has fled from — and after him
dialog: a better man and so on until things
dialog: here are as they should be; all
dialog: kindness and care for these poor
dialog: sick ones,
text: TWO SHOT - Nell watching Hannay as he listens to Wilkes. His
text: hand is still out-stretched and on his fingers the wet mortar
text: can be seen. As Wilkes finishes talking, she and Hannay
text: exchange glances.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE - Showing the group. The Commissioner and
text: Wilkes turn away and start down the corridor. Hannay starts
text: after them. Suddenly Nell throws herself in his way,
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: You're not going to tell them.
dialog: You know what It means to the
dialog: people in there. Is it not worth
dialog: silence to save them suffering?
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: I must tell the truth.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: But no one has asked you.
speaker_heading: NELL
text: (looking at him with a
text: twinkle in her eye)
dialog: I have heard there was much
dialog: rejoicing in,Heaven for the lost
text: lamb that comes back to the fold.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Let me pass, Nell. I must tell
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: With only a little silence you
dialog: can win a lost lamb for the
dialog: fold, Master Hannay. If you
dialog: speak you gain nothing but
dialog: suffering for those in there.
text: Hannay stands puzzled, shaking his head. His conscience seems
dialog: sorely tried.
speaker_heading: NELL
dialog: They have not asked thee.
dialog: Thou hast no need to affirm and why
dialog: should thy hand be added to the
dialog: weight that those people in there
dialog: must bear. Is that God's Will?
text: Hannay looks at her for a moment, then slowly grins.
speaker_heading: HANNAY
dialog: Are we lovers that you thee and
dialog: thou me?
text: Nell smiles back at him.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
