dialog: 
text: "Beetlejuice," shooting script, by Michael McDowell; and Warren Skaaren
speaker_heading: BEETLE JUICE
scene_heading: SECOND DRAFT SCREENPLAY
scene_heading: REVISED 2-3-87
scene_heading: BY WARREN SKAAREN
scene_heading: FROM AN ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY
speaker_heading: BY
speaker_heading: MICHAEL MCDOWELL
dialog: based on a story by
dialog: Michael McDowell and Larry Wilson
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. WINTER RIVER, CONNECTICUT - DAY
text: A crisp and perfect New England town. Almost too neat
text: to be real. No visible townspeople. CAMERA EXPLORES
dialog: town.
speaker_heading: CAMERA FLIES
text: over a rickety bridge -- PAST the Maitland Hardware and
dialog: Appliance store -- PAST the church -- the Historical
text: Society -- UP over the graveyard on the hill and
dialog: finally --
text: To the Maitland house. The perfect Victorian house
text: surveying the tiny village. Suddenly --
scene_heading: A GIANT DADDY LONGLEGS SPIDER
text: mounts the crest of the hill beside the house, pauses to
text: wave a spindly leg and then creeps menacingly on top of
dialog: the Maitland house.
speaker_heading: ADAM (O.S..)
dialog: Well, well, you're a big fella...!
text: A hand -- as big as God's -- with a huge tweezer,
text: gently reaches down out of the sky and lies, palm up,
text: in the yard next to the house. Daddy Longlegs climbs
text: into it. The hand rises into the sky again.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NEW ANGLE - DAY
text: Reveals Winter River as a miniature town, while The
text: Daddy Longlegs and the hand are normal size. Above the
text: model are a homely representation of moon, sun, and
text: stars -- a whole, tiny, mechanical universe to track
text: the hours of the day. A large plat map of the city is
text: prominent on the wall.
text: The hand is ADAM MAITLAND'S. In his late 30's, he's a
dialog: solid easy-going citizen. Capra used to make movies
dialog: about him.
text: Adam's model town sprawls across most of the attic
text: space. Windows on either end of the attic shed good
text: light into the warm room. Adam very carefully lifts
text: the spider out the open window. Smiles as he drips him
text: lightly on the breeze.
text: CAMERA TILTS UP FROM THE WINDOW
text: To see the real Winter River, laid out exactly as the
text: model, at the foot of the hill. Adam breathes deeply
text: and looks very pleased at the glorious town below him.
scene_heading: ON HIS HUGE HAND AGAIN
text: as it reaches into model and tweezes a tiny sign into
text: the tiny window of Maitland's Hardware Store on main
dialog: street. It reads:
scene_heading: ADAM AND BARBARA MAITLAND
speaker_heading: ARE
dialog: ON VACATION!
speaker_heading: HOORAY!
text: Adam leans down and eyes the sign.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (behind him)
dialog: I'm ready!
text: Adam turns to see entering: BARBARA MAITLAND, 35 -- a
text: wholesome beauty who is mellowing well. She smiles at
text: him. Perhaps a certain tinge of sadness about her,
dialog: because they don't have children.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (happy to see her)
dialog: She's ready.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (eyeing the model)
dialog: It looks great.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Thanks.
text: She pushes a wrapped present across the table.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Happy vacation, honey!
text: Adam smiles and gives her a present he's hidden under
text: the table. He opens his present. A can of furniture
dialog: oil.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Manchurian Tung oil?
dialog: (playfully grabs
text: Barbara and kisses
dialog: her)
dialog: Where did you get it?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Helen got it for me in Oslo.
dialog: There's enough to refinish the
dialog: gateleg table and the cherry
dialog: wardrobe...
text: Adam hands Barbara a carefully-wrapped bundle -- she
text: unwraps her gift... rolls of very expensive floral
text: wallpaper. She cradles it in her arms like gold leaf.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh, Adam... it's beautiful.
text: Adam nods, and embraces her.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Enough to do the guest room...
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (cooing)
dialog: I'm so glad we're spending our
dialog: vacation at home...
dialog: (with a sudden resolve)
dialog: ... I'm going to get started right
dialog: now!
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (pulling her back)
dialog: Whoa!... hold on...
text: Barbara calms down, returning to Adam's embrace... as:
text: PHONE RINGS -- They freeze, then grin.
speaker_heading: ADAM & BARBARA
dialog: (unison)
dialog: No one's home!
text: HONK HONK outside. They look at each other horrified.
text: Peer out the window.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh no.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (pointing at her)
dialog: It's your turn, darling.
text: She shakes her head with resignation and goes downstairs.
text: KNOCKING on door from below.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRCASE AND KITCHEN - DAY
text: CAMERA FOLLOWS Adam and Barbara downstairs. We see the
text: rambling, old fashioned quality to the house.
text: Clean, sentimental, warm and floral. Some rooms in
text: progress. They continue down the main staircase past
text: photos of themselves, old photos of the early days of
text: Winter River, pictures and mementos of three
text: generations in hardware. Barbara goes to the kitchen
text: and Adam continues down to the basement.
speaker_heading: HER POV - A WOMAN
text: JANE BUTTERFIELD -- tall, gawky and aggressive peeks in
text: the kitchen door. She's divorced three husbands and
dialog: buried another for good measure. She's ruthless but is
text: weirdly, seamlessly pleasant. She waves a legal sized
text: paper at them, starts to come inside.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. KITCHEN DOOR
text: Barbara makes dash for it and holds it just as Jane gets
text: a foot in. Jane smiles wildly.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Hi, Barb! I'm glad I caught you.
dialog: I heard you were on vacation!
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: That's right, Jane. Complete
dialog: vacation.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Honey -- today I am three hundred
dialog: fifty thousand dollars!
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No! Jane, it is 6:45 in the
dialog: morning!
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Look at me, think of me as cash!
dialog: This offer is really real! From a
dialog: rich man in New York City who only
dialog: saw a photograph!
dialog: (rattles on)
dialog: My buyer has just made a killing
dialog: in condos in Manhattan, but he's
dialog: got a little stress problem...
dialog: (taps her head)
dialog: ... so -- he wants to bring the
dialog: wife and kid for the old peace and
dialog: quiet.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: That's what we're looking for,
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Barbara Maitland, sweetie, just
dialog: listen now. This house is too
dialog: big. It really ought to be for a
text: couple with a family.
text: That hurts Barbara a little. She looks at Jane.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Oh, honey... I didn't mean
dialog: anything... it's just too big for
dialog: you.
text: Jane compulsively affixes her business card, face inside.
text: in the windowpane.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (shutting door)
dialog: 'Bye, Jane, see you in a few
dialog: weeks.
speaker_heading: ADAM
text: is humming happily, looking for paint brushes in the
text: ground floor storeroom. He spies a cassette deck and
text: looks through a stack of cassettes and plays one. It
text: is an old INKSPOTS LOVE SONG.
scene_heading: INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY
text: Barbara is starting to paper the walls already. She
text: frowns at the MUSIC. Goes to the door.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh, honey. You said no Inkspots
dialog: on this vacation!
text: It CLICKS OFF. She goes back into the room.
scene_heading: INT. STOREROOM - DAY
text: Adam puts away the tape but keeps humming the song. He
text: opens the shutters on a small window. ON WINDOW...
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: (her huge face
dialog: grinning at him)
dialog: Boo!
text: He jumps back, frightened.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: No, Jane.
text: Adam closes the shutters as Jane affixes yet another
text: card to the window. He continues his search for a
dialog: brush.
speaker_heading: JANE
text: exits jauntily, flapping her contract down the lawn.
scene_heading: INT. MAITLAND HOUSE - DAY
text: Adam continues rummaging for a brush. Can't find it.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (calling to distant
dialog: Barbara)
dialog: Honey, come with me down to the
dialog: store?
speaker_heading: BARBARA (O.S.)
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I need a good brush for this Tung
dialog: oil and I want to pick up a piece
dialog: of the model. Let's go early
dialog: before anyone sees us.
text: Barbara has already papered a few rolls in the guest
dialog: room.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Okay, but let's hurry back. You
dialog: just run in okay?
scene_heading: EXT. THE HOUSE - DAY
text: The Victorian house from the model "in the flesh."
text: Adam stands by the station wagon.
text: On the bumper of the car is a sticker reading:
text: WARNING: I BRAKE FOR ANIMALS.
text: Barbara gets in driver's side. They drive off.
scene_heading: INT. THE CAR - DAY
text: Adam dusts the inside of the dashboard. Clean Clean.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (preoccupied)
dialog: Jane said we should sell the house
dialog: to someone with a family.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Ah, the ever-tactful Jane.
text: Puts his hand on her shoulder.
scene_heading: EXT. THE RIVER AND BRIDGE AND HILL - DAY
text: We see the car coming down the hill toward the bridge.
speaker_heading: ADAM (V.O.)
dialog: We should be flattered that she
dialog: wants to sell our house.
speaker_heading: BARBARA (V.O.)
dialog: I know... I just wish she'd leave
dialog: us alone.
speaker_heading: ADAM (V.O.)
dialog: Let's not think about it. We'll
dialog: have a nice romantic, quiet,
dialog: vacation. Here comes the bridge
dialog: chorus.
text: Car reaches the rickety covered bridge. Car shakes,
text: bobbing up and down on every plank.
dialog: ON Barbara and Adam TIGHT -- (they've done this routine
text: before). They sing an old Johnny Mathis song. With a
text: lot of vibrato.
speaker_heading: TOGETHER
dialog: Chances are... When I wear a
dialog: foolish grin...
text: They laugh.
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN WINTER RIVER - DAY
text: Just like the model, but real. And populated.
text: CAMERA PAUSES ON a gorgeous storefront with a brass
text: lion out front. Sign above doors says --
scene_heading: BOZMAN BUILDING 1835
text: An old man polishes the lion as Maitlands drive by and
dialog: wave.
speaker_heading: BARBARA (V.O.)
text: Wave at the lion.
speaker_heading: ADAM (V.O.)
dialog: Don't forget the balls, Ernie.
speaker_heading: BARBARA (V.O.)
dialog: (embarrassed)
dialog: Adam!
text: Ernie looks around to see no one's looking and polishes
text: the balls of the lion.
scene_heading: CAMERA SPIES A JAUNTY DOG
text: like Benji, peeing on the opposite corner of the lion.
text: Maitlands drive by store with sign:
scene_heading: JANE BUTTERFIELD
speaker_heading: ANTIQUES
speaker_heading: REAL ESTATE
speaker_heading: TRAVEL
scene_heading: INT. ANTIQUE STORE REAL ESTATE OFFICE TRAVEL AGENCY -
speaker_heading: DAY
text: The store is bursting with antiques of all sorts,
text: travel brochures, photographs of houses for sale, and a
text: serve-yourself Xerox machine. LITTLE JANE, her eight-
text: year-old daughter is drudgingly making copies.
text: Jane, phone in hand, rushes to the window to watch
text: Maitlands drive by. Almost popping the cord when it
text: reaches its end. She's waiting for the other party to
dialog: pick up.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Y... ello. Mrs. Deetz? Well the
dialog: condition is what we country folk
dialog: call, fixin'... Yes, I think they
dialog: are fixin' to accept another
dialog: offer. Well maybe if you offer
dialog: 390,000 they'll take it.
scene_heading: EXT. MAITLAND HARDWARE - DAY
text: Adam sprints up the steps of his lovely hardware store.
text: OLD BILL, a slightly-addled ancient barber, is napping
text: in a chair in front of his shop, next door to Adam's.
text: Adam fumbles with the lock, not interested in conver-
text: sation. He drops his keys, waking Old Bill.
speaker_heading: OLD BILL
dialog: 'Morning, Adam. You need a
dialog: haircut before your vacation?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: No thanks, Bill.
speaker_heading: OLD BILL
dialog: How's the model coming?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Good, Bill -- Good.
text: Bill turns around and continues prattling even though
text: Adam has entered. Bill prattles throughout.
speaker_heading: OLD BILL
dialog: Y'know, I was thinkin'... you said
dialog: Bozman built the foundation in
dialog: 1835 but y'know his grandson came
dialog: in here last week and said he
dialog: found a bottle with an 1836 stamp
text: in it plastered in the foundation.
dialog: (suddenly disgusted
dialog: at the memory)
dialog: He's got hair down to his
dialog: goddamned shoulders...
scene_heading: INT. MAITLAND HARDWARE
text: Adam pulls down a few good paintbrushes and carefully
text: picks up a small model of the Bozman building. He
text: walks out. Old Bill continues unabated.
speaker_heading: OLD BILL
dialog: He said "Just give me a trim..." I
dialog: took a scissors to him so fast...
dialog: would've skimmed him clean if he
dialog: hadn't...
text: Adam strides by quickly to the car.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: See you, Bill.
speaker_heading: OLD BILL
dialog: Right.
scene_heading: EXT. MAITLAND'S CAR - DAY
text: The Maitlands drive their car out of town.
speaker_heading: ON JANE
scene_heading: EXT. CAR AND BRIDGE - DAY
text: Car approaches.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - DAY
text: Five brushes sit on the seat next to Adam. He cradles
text: small replica of the Bozman building, complete with
dialog: brass lion.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: It's a beauty.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Yeah it turned out okay. We
dialog: applied for a historical plaque
dialog: for it. That'll be the third one
text: on Main Street.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (jokingly)
dialog: With all these historical
dialog: landmarks in town, where are they
dialog: going to put the condominiums?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: Slow down there, honey... I don't
dialog: want the vibration to weaken the
dialog: model.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: Oh... I'm sorry...
text: Barbara starts to apply the brakes.
text: Just before the bridge the dog waddles out in the road.
text: Stops to pee. Barbara swerves. As the car hits the
text: rickety bridge, the speed is just a bit too much.
text: Boards RATTLE and loosen, the car skews and catches in
text: an open slot, careens to the right, then the left and
dialog: the bridge.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - DAY
text: A piling has smashed through the window on the pas-
text: senger side, crushing the upper part of Barbara's
text: arm. She is wailing in pain and fright.
text: Adam tries to help Barbara. He tries to get out of the
text: car. None of this succeeds.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE AND RIVER - DAY
text: The dog finishes, looks over at the car, walks across
text: the bridge and steps on the one board which holds the
text: car aloft.
text: The car rocks back and forth for a moment, and then
text: slides forward toward the water.
scene_heading: EXT. CAR AND BRIDGE
text: The car plunges into the rushing water. It floats
text: for a moment, and then sinks like a stone.
text: FADE TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. BARBARA AND ADAM'S LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Quiet, still, expectant. There is a fire laid in the
text: hearth. Suddenly and for no apparent reason it ignites
text: and burns with a furious cheerfulness.
text: Barbara and Adam enter, dazed, wet, and bedraggled.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Something like this always happens
dialog: when we try to go on vacation.
dialog: Always.
text: Adam leads her toward the fire.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: You'll feel better when you're
dialog: dry.
text: He holds out his hands to be warmed. Barbara comes up
text: beside him. All this time she's been holding her
text: injured arm with the other hand.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: This fire wasn't burning when we
dialog: left the house.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: How's your arm?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: I'm not sure. It feels... frozen.
text: She holds her arms out to warm them. One hand catches
text: on fire.
speaker_heading: BARBARA'S LEFT ARM
text: They stare at it dumbfoundedly before Adam regains his
text: senses and snatches it out of the fire. Two of the
text: fingers are burning like candles, and Barbara indus-
text: triously blows them out.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh, Adam.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM: A FEW MINUTES LATER - DAY
text: They are sitting on the couch together. Barbara is
text: looking away slightly -- as one does when a doctor is
text: drawing blood -- while Adam looks at her fingers. He
text: frowns.
text: He looks at his skin. It is pale. He looks at
dialog: Barbara.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: You'd better sit down, hon.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I am sitting.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I'll tell you what, Barbara. I
dialog: don't think we survived that
dialog: crash.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Oh, Adam. We're home. In our own
dialog: house. Nonsense. I'll make some
dialog: coffee. You get some more
dialog: firewood.
text: Adam gets up, a little absently, she follows him as he
text: wanders to the front door. He peers out.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Let's take things extra slow. Do
dialog: you remember how we got back up
dialog: here?
text: Barbara tests her hand, clenches and unclenches her
dialog: fist.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I'm fine. My arm works fine.
text: Adam, exploring, opens the door, steps out on the front
dialog: porch.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT PORCH - TWILIGHT
text: Adam's face is painted with color of sunset. He stands
text: atop the steps leading down to the front yard. Barbara
text: stands just inside the open threshold, looking out
text: worriedly.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (quiet sarcasm)
text: The end of a perfect day.
text: Adam starts to step down to the yard.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Honey, I'm gonna go down to the
dialog: bridge and retrace our steps.
text: He steps off the last step into the yard and promptly
dialog: disappears.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Adam!
scene_heading: EXT. THE GREAT VOID
text: Adam is nowhere. There's no ground, no sky, nothing to
dialog: stand on or hold onto or give boundaries or distance.
text: Just vast nothing. Not white and not colored either.
text: NOISE OF A CLOCK TICKING.
text: Adam looks about surprised, doesn't like what he
text: doesn't see. He turns around to head back up the
text: steps. There are no steps.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Barbara?
text: His VOICE ECHOES STRANGELY. He runs off a little in
text: the distance, and calls again from over there.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (continuing; quietly)
dialog: Where are you?
text: He goes even farther away.
text: IN THE FOREGROUND
text: an enormous geared wheel -- the size of a man -- rolls
text: by, tearing up the unseamed ground. Something pours up
text: out of the tear -- ooze or stuffing.
text: Adam runs forward and stares after the wheel, which is
text: now out of sight.
scene_heading: TWO SMALLER GEARS
text: looking very much like components of a giant watch --
text: spin along behind him. One of them veers suddenly
text: toward him, and though Adam jumps out of the way, the
text: gear snags his trouser leg and shreds it. LOUD
text: TICKING.
scene_heading: A PERFECTLY ENORMOUS GEAR
text: comes barreling toward him. Adam leaps out of its
text: way. The gear turns, fish-tailing, kicking up ooze and
text: stuffing.
text: Adam flings himself suddenly to the right, but trips
text: into the path of the gear. As he's about to be
text: crushed, he's suddenly jerked up to safety.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT PORCH - NIGHT
text: It's Barbara who's grabbed him, and quite evidently
dialog: saved his life -- not life, perhaps -- but existence.
text: He's shaken, breathless.
text: Barbara stares at him, as if wondering what he's just
dialog: been through.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: You saved my -- uh -- life... or
dialog: whatever...
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Two hours.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: That's how long you were gone.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (pondering that)
dialog: ... Hmmm?
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Barbara leads Adam into the house.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Anything happen while I was away?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Yes, it did. Yes, it did. I made
text: a couple of small discoveries.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: stands by the mirror over the hearth mantle. On the
dialog: mantle is Barbara's prize collection of porcelain
text: horses. Adam comes to stand beside her. They look
text: into the mirror, and there is no reflection of them.
text: Barbara picks up one of the horses, and trots it through
text: the air. The horse is imaged in the mirror.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: There's that, and there's this.
text: She picks up an ancient, leather-bound book. It's
text: yellow and worn, about the size of the Boy Scout
dialog: manual.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP: Its title is HANDBOOK FOR THE RECENTLY
text: DECEASED.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (reading)
dialog: Handbook for the recently
dialog: diseased.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Deceased. I don't know where it
dialog: came from. Look at the publisher.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (he does and reads)
dialog: Handbook for the Recently Deceased
dialog: Press.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (finally admit-
dialog: ting it)
dialog: I don't think we survived the
dialog: crash.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Adam is already in bed, reading from the handbook.
text: Barbara is getting ready for bed -- going through a
dialog: ritual of sorts that they practiced every night of
dialog: their married lives.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I don't like situations like this.
dialog: I hate it when I'm not in control.
dialog: So just tell me the basics.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: This book isn't arranged that
dialog: way. What do you want to know?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: There are a thousand things... Why
dialog: did you disappear when you walked
dialog: off the front porch? Is this a
dialog: punishment? Are we halfway to
dialog: heaven or are we halfway to hell?
dialog: And how long is this going to
dialog: last?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I don't see anything about
dialog: "Rewards and Punishments" or
dialog: "Heaven and Hell."
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: This book reads like stereo
dialog: instructions! Listen to this...
dialog: 'Geographical and Temporal
dialog: Perimeters... Functional
dialog: perimeters vary from manifestation
dialog: to manifestation." This is going
dialog: to take some time.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: paces, she trips on her wallpaper rolls. Kicks them.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I knew I'd never finish the guest
dialog: room. Adam, we just can't stay in
dialog: here forever!
text: They look at each other, the question hangs in the air.
dialog: Can't they?
text: Adam stands and walks to the window.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (thoughtfully)
dialog: Maybe we should set up a normal
dialog: routine.
text: She looks at him like he's nuts.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I mean, let's try to nail down
dialog: something in our lives. A regular
dialog: schedule. We can keep track of
dialog: time and go on with our projects
text: up here in the attic.
text: She shakes her head, exasperated. Flops down on the
dialog: bed.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh, God, maybe this is all just a
dialog: bad dream.
text: ON ADAM - TIGHT - a somber look comes across his face.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I'm afraid not, honey.
text: Barbara looks up at him, questioningly.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Why? What's wrong? Adam?
text: She stands and joins him at the window.
text: THEIR POV THROUGH THE WINDOW
text: In the distance we see an automobile funeral procession
text: threading its way toward the nearby cemetery. Head-
text: lights are on. We recognize Jane's car in the line.
scene_heading: REVERSE ON BARBARA AND ADAM
text: somber faces.
scene_heading: TIGHTER ON PROCESSION
text: It arrives at the gravesite. We see some familiar
text: faces, Ernie, and Old Bill the Barber. Jane and little
text: Jane watch as two identical coffins are carried to-
text: gether, to two open graves.
scene_heading: ON BARBARA AND ADAM
text: She drops her head sadly on his shoulder. He leans his
text: face slightly into hers.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Adam is setting up a small monument in the model town
text: cemetery. It reads: ADAM AND BARBARA MAITLAND/UNITED
scene_heading: IN LIFE/UNDIVIDED IN DEATH.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I wish I had a better view of the
dialog: cemetery from up here. I don't
dialog: know which area is the best
dialog: placement for us.
text: Barbara, trying to clean, lets out a frustrated YELP!
text: She paces.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Cabin fever, han?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I can't clean anything. The
dialog: vacuum is out in the garage. I
dialog: can't leave the house. Why don't
dialog: they tell us something? Where are
dialog: all the other dead people in the
dialog: world? Why is it just you and me?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Maybe this is heaven.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (looking at the
dialog: dusty walls)
dialog: In heaven there wouldn't be dust
text: on the wallpaper.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Hon... I didn't want to die, but
dialog: really, this is fine with me.
dialog: Look, we never have to wash dishes
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Dishes? We haven't eaten in three
dialog: weeks! Adam, I'm not like you. I
dialog: really need to be around people,
dialog: get out to the church and go
dialog: grocery shopping.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: But I'm not hungry, are you?
text: Barbara shakes her head and picks up the Handbook and
text: pages through it desperately.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I keep having this feeling that
dialog: something has got to happen.
text: CAR DOOR SLAMS outside. Adam and Barbara look at one
dialog: another. Run to window.
scene_heading: EXT. MAITLAND HOUSE - DAY
text: Jane Butterfield is staring up at the old house.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Adam, from his angle, can just barely see her.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: God, it's Jane.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: What's she doing here?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I don't know.
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Jane, Jane, up here!
scene_heading: EXT. MAITLAND HOUSE - DAY
text: Unhearing, Jane heads for car. SOUND OF WIND UP.
text: Blows her dress. Little Jane straggles along with her
text: like an apprentice.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Barbara watches Adam, and shakes her head. He stops.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: She can't see you, right?
text: Adam nods.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: In the book, Rule Number Two: the
dialog: living usually won't see the dead.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Won't? Or can't?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Just says "won't." Wait a minute.
dialog: Here it says "the living are
dialog: arrogant... they think they'll
dialog: never die, so they refuse to see
dialog: the dead."
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Arrogant. That's Jane all right...
text: Barbara sighs and nods.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: At least we won't have to worry
dialog: about her.
text: Adam smiles and goes to his model.
scene_heading: EXT. MAITLAND HOUSE - DAY
text: Jane drives away. CAMERA HINGES to see a FOR SALE
text: sign. Across it -- another smaller banner. It reads:
speaker_heading: SOLD!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM - MORNING
text: The Maitlands are asleep. CAMERA EXPLORES the room a
text: bit. It is getting slightly tatty. Adam rolls over,
text: pulling the covers off Barbara. We see:
text: ON BARBARA -- she is hovering off the side of the bed.
text: An OMINOUS RUMBLE -- like a 4.0 earthquake shakes
text: the house. GLASS RATTLES, the ceramic horses on the
text: mantelpiece jump around. Barbara falls to the floor.
text: They look at one another with horror. They leap up and
text: run downstairs.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: The RUMBLE BUILDS TO A CLIMAX, there is a LOUD METALLIC
text: SQUEAL, and then a CRASH... just as Barbara and Adam
dialog: arrive.
speaker_heading: THE FRONT DOOR
text: smashes open revealing a moving van ramp.
scene_heading: A TEN-FOOT ELECTRIC-BLUE ITALIAN LEATHER COUCH
text: slides smoothly down the ramp. On the couch sits DELIA
speaker_heading: DEETZ.
text: The couch CRASHES into the base of the staircase,
text: smashing the newel post and several of the balusters.
text: Barbara cringes. One of the balusters falls at Delia's
text: side. She grasps it like a scepter.
text: Two MOVING MEN rush down the ramp.
speaker_heading: MOVING MAN #1
dialog: Sorry about that, Mrs. Deetz.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Don't worry. It was going anyway.
text: Delia is relentlessly New York, relentlessly fashion-
text: able, relentlessly thin -- totally self assured.
text: She is also a woman with a mission -- to gut Barbara
text: and Adam's house and remake it in her own very upscale
dialog: image.
text: Delia's gaze is on the living room, but she looks
text: through Adam and Barbara as if they weren't even there
dialog: (which to her eyes they're not).
text: Still holding the baluster, Delia gets up off the couch
text: and moves into the living room, surveying it with an
text: odd mixture of ambition, and resolution.
speaker_heading: BEHIND HER
text: the two Moving Men bring in a matching blue leather
text: armchair. In the armchair sits LYDIA DEETZ.
text: Lydia, age 14, is a pretty girl, but wan, pale and
text: overly-dramatic, dressed as she is in her favorite
text: color, black. She's a combination of a little death
text: rocker and an 80's version of Edward Gorey's little
dialog: girls.
text: She has a couple of expensive cameras around her neck
text: -- and is already taking photographs of the moving
text: men. Lydia is cool, Lydia is sullen, Lydia is her
text: father's daughter by his first marriage. Lydia is
dialog: usually about half-pissed off. But underneath... we
dialog: like her a lot.
text: The Moving Men still hold up the chair, waiting for
text: Delia to decide where she wants it.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Jesus. Who lived here? The
dialog: Waltons?
text: TIGHT ON Lydia -- calmly surveys the house.
text: Delia signals wearily that the Moving Men can put the
dialog: chair down anywhere.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Get all this other crap out of
dialog: here.
text: Lydia hops down out of the chair, and comes farther
text: into the living room.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Where is your father?... probably
text: in the kitchen.
text: That's the cue for CHARLES DEETZ, who comes in through
text: the swinging door, and across the dining room... a ner-
dialog: vous but basically pleasant man, CHARLES DEETZ is
text: intent on attacking rest and relaxation with the same
dialog: vengeance that earned him millions in real estate.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
text: The noise in that kitchen. Noisy
text: refrigerator, noisy faucets...
dialog: We'll have to replace it all. I
dialog: want no humming in the house.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
text: exploring on her own, gazes around the living room with
text: growing pleasure, she backs up for a good angle to
dialog: photograph.
text: CAMERA HINGES -- She is standing with her back right up
text: to Barbara -- who is horrified at this creature.
text: Charles enters.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (to Lydia)
dialog: What do you think, honey?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Delia hates it.
text: Lydia gazes at a dusty maze of spider webs.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I could live here.
text: A movement makes Lydia turn around and scream. It is
dialog: Delia. Not Barbara.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Settle down, Lydia. I wonder
dialog: where we are going to get
dialog: counseling for you out here.
text: A VIOLENT FALSETTO SCREAM turns the Deetz family's
text: attention to the front windows.
speaker_heading: OTHO (O.S.)
dialog: Help! Oh help!
scene_heading: OTHO'S MASSIVE BODY
text: Wedged in the window frame. The short, stubby legs,
text: dressed in the world's largest pair of Georgia Armani
text: slacks, protrude into the living room, waving fran-
text: tically. Expensive Italian loafers are kicked off the
text: feet, revealing a pair of expensive patterned socks.
dialog: By their feet shall ye know them.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: It's Otho!
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Otho, why didn't you just come in
dialog: the door?
text: Otho's voice comes as if from a great distance.
speaker_heading: OTHO (O.S.)
dialog: It's bad luck. And I believe
text: hugely in luck.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Hold your breath and we'll pull.
text: Delia turns to Charles and Lydia for help -- doesn't
text: get it -- and at last pulls Otho into the living room
text: single-handedly.
text: All this while the Moving Men are variously carting out
text: the handsome old furniture and bringing in the hideous
dialog: new furniture.
text: Otho is Robert Morley at his most obscenely fat and
dialog: faggoty. But he's not all fat and fun -- this customer
text: carries nasty emotional weight as well.
speaker_heading: OTHO
text: holds onto the curtains for support as he is pulled
text: through the window. And when he is at last all the way
text: through, and upright on his feet, he suddenly gives a
text: tremendous yank. The whole drapery apparatus,
text: including valences, crashes to the floor.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: That was the single most
dialog: unattractive window treatment I
dialog: have ever seen in the entire of my
dialog: existence.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (starry eyed)
dialog: I'm so glad you could leave the
dialog: city to consult me, Otho.
text: Otho is looking around the room with an eye of quiet
dialog: horror.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Yes, of course you are. Well,
dialog: Otho had an intuition. Call it a
dialog: hunch -- that it was going to be a
text: fabled monstrosity of a house.
dialog: And it certainly is. Charles,
dialog: you're lucky the yuppies are
dialog: buying condos, so you can afford
dialog: what I'm going to have to do to
dialog: this place. We are talking from
dialog: the ground ups'ville!
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: That's fine, Otho. Just keep me
dialog: out of it. I am here to relax and
dialog: clip coupons. And goddamnit, I
dialog: mean to do it.
text: He exits to find solace in a quiet corner of his house.
text: During this speech, Otho has been surreptitiously pos-
text: ing for Lydia's camera. She clicks the shutter.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (ignoring her)
dialog: Is the rest of the house as bad as
dialog: this?
speaker_heading: DELIA
text: The rest of the house is probably
dialog: worse. When can you and I get
dialog: started?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: No time like the present, as my
dialog: wicked stepmother used to say.
text: Out of the pockets of his size 56 Georgia Armani
text: jacket, Otho takes two cans of spray paint -- the kind
text: the graffiti artists use -- and shakes them as if they
dialog: were castanets. They certainly sound like it.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Delia, let's get this show on the
dialog: road.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY
text: At one end, near the stairs leading up to the attic,
text: Barbara and Adam are slumped against opposite walls.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Adam, we are in hell. I hate
dialog: these people.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: They make Jane look good.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Is this a punishment for something
dialog: we did in life? What can we do?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (determined)
dialog: We're not completely helpless.
dialog: I've been reading the book.
dialog: There's a word for people in our
dialog: predicament, honey.
text: Barbara looks at him.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Ghosts!
text: Barbara is shocked at the reality.
text: Otho and Delia come up the stairs at the end of the
dialog: hallway.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: We're dealing with negative
dialog: entertainment potential here. I
dialog: mean, there's absolutely no organic
text: walking flow-through.
text: Otho looks down the hallway. It's empty. Adam and
dialog: Barbara are no longer there.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: I thought I saw something.
text: DeLia turns and spray-paints on the wall -- in luminous
text: orange -- the word MAUVE.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Okay?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (screaming with delight)
dialog: You read my mind! I love clients
dialog: who can read my mind. I don't
dialog: think people realize how strong a
dialog: connection there is between
dialog: interior design and the
dialog: supernatural.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (fawning)
dialog: I know... I read your book, The
text: Haunted Tapestries of the Waldorf.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Gooood!
text: Delia opens the door and they step inside another room.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: This will be Lydia's room.
scene_heading: INT. LYDIA'S ROOM - DAY
text: It's not Lydia's room yet, of course, because it still
text: has the Maitlands' furniture in it. Barbara had partly
text: wallpapered it before the accident. Her tools are still
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Viridian?
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Viridian? What is...?
text: Otho spray-paints the word VIRIDIAN on the wall -- plus
text: the word BLUE GREEN -- and Cr2 03, right over a picture
dialog: of Adam and Barbara as kids.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Blue-green! Hydrated chromic
dialog: oxide! Remember I'm schooled in
dialog: chemistry. I was a hair analyst!
text: Briefly. Interior design is a
dialog: science, Delia! Think of me as
dialog: Doctor Otho.
dialog: (looking at wall)
dialog: And this patient is truly sick!
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Of course, her favorite color!
dialog: How beautiful!
text: Delia smiles. Behind Delia and Otho, the room's closet
text: door swings slowly open with and ominous CREAK.
speaker_heading: DELIA AND OTHO
text: turn that way, with a suggestion of dread. Inside the
text: closet, Barbara's corpse is suspended from the ceiling
text: by a belt. The corpse twists with a CREAK, and Barbara
text: grins ghostly -- and slowly tears off her face, leaving
text: nothing but muscle and bone beneath. Her eyeballs
text: dangle on her cheeks.
text: Delia and Otho stare aghast.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Oh my God!
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: We just have to pray that the
dialog: other closets are bigger than this
dialog: one.
text: He walks over. Looks inside.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Were these people dwarfes? (sic)
dialog: (spies something)
dialog: Oooooo!... Look!
text: He finds, neatly hung in plastic, the Maitlands'
text: wedding outfits. Totally captivated by this powerful
text: image, he peers through the plastic at them. Holding
text: each up to Delia. Barbara watches wide-eyed at them.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Ozzie...
dialog: (holding up
dialog: her dress)
dialog: ... and... Harriet! What happened
dialog: to these people?
text: Delia slams the door in Barbara's contorted face.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: They died.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - SAME TIME
text: Delia and Otho come out of Lydia's bedroom and go
text: through the bathroom. Disgusted, they continue on to
dialog: the study.
speaker_heading: OTHO
text: reaches out and turns the knob. The door swings omi-
text: nously open on Charles' study. This had been Adam's
text: reading and birdwatching study. Bird posters on the
text: wall, books everywhere. Straight out of Better Homes
dialog: and Gardens 1963.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Ooo. Deliver me from L.L. Bean!
speaker_heading: ANGLE
dialog: There is one slight difference, however, because on the
text: rag rug in the middle of the floor lies Adam's headless
text: corpse. Standing over him, holding in one hand a long
text: knife and in the other Adam's blood-and-gore dripping
text: head is Barbara -- with a maniacal look on her face.
text: Behind them, Charles is thumbing through Adam's Audubon
text: collection. He sits up like a cornered animal protect-
dialog: ing his territory.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (to Otho and Delia)
dialog: This room is off limits. I don't
dialog: want either of you to touch one
dialog: piece of furniture in here. This
dialog: is my room.
scene_heading: INSIDE THE ROOM
text: The eyes of Adam's severed head open and look up at
text: Barbara -- she stops screaming.
speaker_heading: ADAM'S HEAD
dialog: They don't see us. They can't
dialog: hear us.
text: Outside, Delia is shaking her head.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: The woman who lived here had the
dialog: aesthetic instincts of Betty
dialog: Crocker.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I'm going to get her.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: I cannot convey to you the extent
dialog: to which this house bores me.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (looking around
dialog: scientifically)
dialog: Once you cover up the wallpaper,
dialog: knock down a few walls, alter the
dialog: traffic patterns, and -- perhaps
dialog: -- think about an inground pool --
dialog: the place might just be livable.
dialog: What's on the third floor?
speaker_heading: DELIA
text: Attic space.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Let's see. We could turn that
text: into a media room.
text: They head up the stars to the attic.
scene_heading: INT. STUDY - SAME TIME
text: Adam's head has a look of terror on it.
speaker_heading: ADAM'S HEAD
dialog: Oh, God. I forgot to lock the
dialog: attic door!
text: Adam's headless body jumps up off the floor and rushes
text: out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRCASE TO ATTIC - SAME TIME
text: Otho and Delia climbing. The headless corpse careens
text: past them, around the bend in the stairs and out of
dialog: sight.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Did you feel something?
text: Delia shakes her head.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I felt a cool wind.
text: The expression on Otho's face suggests he knows more
dialog: than he's telling.
scene_heading: INT. LANDING OUTSIDE ATTIC DOOR - SAME TIME
text: The headless corpse rushes through the open door into
text: the attic.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - SAME TIME
text: The headless corpse slams the door shut, turns the key
text: in the lock. Then he slumps against the locked door in
text: an exaggerated stance of relief.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC LANDING - SAME TIME
text: Delia tries the knob. The door is locked.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: You don't have a key?
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Maybe Charles does.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: I have a feeling there's some very
dialog: interesting space behind this
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: Probably the world's largest
dialog: Reader's Digest collection!
dialog: C'mon, let's have some chablis,
dialog: Otho, I'm laid bare by this
text: experience. Entirely bare.
scene_heading: INT. STUDY - SAME TIME
text: Barbara still holding Adam's head.
text: Charles still calmly leafing through the Audubons.
speaker_heading: ADAM'S HEAD
dialog: Whew! That was close.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I cannot witness this.
text: Barbara distractedly puts Adam's head on a bookshelf.
text: His headless body fumbles with the books and finally
text: reattaches the head.
scene_heading: INT. STUDY - DAY
text: Adam turns away from the window.
text: Barbara, fuming, moves around Charles making wild
dialog: gestures.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: What's the good of being a ghost
dialog: if you can't frighten people to
dialog: death?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Oh, honey...
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No, I'm not putting up with this.
text: She storms out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER
text: Barbara storms in, as if straight from the room up-
text: stairs. She heads straight for the back door. Just as
text: she opens the door, Adam rushes up.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Barbara, honey! Don't go out
dialog: there. You don't know --
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Nothing can be worse than this...
text: She flings open the door and steps outside. She
text: promptly disappears.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Barbara!
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE OF SATURN'S MOON TITAN - DAY
text: Barbara plunges into the dusty surface of Titan with an
text: enormous Saturn looming in the sky. She looks around
text: with wonder and some fear.
speaker_heading: A SULFUR VOLCANO
text: erupts in the distance. A meteor CRASHES with a lurid
text: EXPLOSION. As from a great distance she hears Adam's
text: VOICE. Like THUNDER.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Barbara!
text: She turns slowly in the yellow dense sand that covers
text: the surface of this distant moon.
speaker_heading: BARBARA'S POV
text: Adam is trudging towards her. Behind him, hovering
text: isolated in the air, is the kitchen door.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Adam at last catches up with her. Surveys around them.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh Adam. Find somebody. I'm
dialog: getting all yellow. Do something!
speaker_heading: BEHIND THEM
text: Something is burrowing rapidly toward them through the
text: sand. The Something could be right out of "Dune".
speaker_heading: BARBARA AND ADAM
text: stare for a moment, then Adam grabs her and pulls her
text: toward the kitchen door. But the kitchen door has
text: moved, so they veer in the new direction.
text: The Something follows them and rises out of the sand.
speaker_heading: ON SOMETHING
text: It is a very big, very nasty, and very hungry SNAPPING
text: SANDWORM. It ROARS and lunges at them.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: slightly angered at it, instinctively bats at it.
speaker_heading: THE SANDWORM
text: is momentarily stunned at Barbara's audacity. It
text: freezes and shakes its loathesome head.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: bats at it again. Adam is wide-eyed, tries to pull her
text: away. The Sandworm recovers and ROARS after them.
speaker_heading: ADAM
text: grabs Barbara and tries to escape, but they slip and
text: sink in the sand.
text: They make it to the door just in time, swing it open
text: and hurl themselves through. The door shuts with a
text: BANG just in front of the ROARING SANDWORM.
speaker_heading: THE SANDWORM
text: rears and ROARS in frustration, HOWLING to the ringed
dialog: planet.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: Barbara, weeping, throws herself in Adam's arms.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh, Adam, don't ever leave me
dialog: alone.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: You left me.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I know. I'm sorry.
text: She hugs him tight.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I just realized that I could have
dialog: been killed alone. Don't ever
dialog: leave me, honey.
text: Both contemplate that horror.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: We're trapped in this house
dialog: forever... with those... people.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: You can't say that for sure. It
dialog: could be a transitional thing.
dialog: Like a post-life crisis. We just
dialog: have to be tougher with them.
dialog: Come on. Have some brandy.
dialog: Spirits?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (a tentative smile)
dialog: Death didn't improve your sense of
dialog: humor.
text: They head for the dining room.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM
text: Adam has his arms around Barbara's shoulder. They walk
text: in the door and stumble upon the Deetzes at their
text: dinner. Lydia's back is to them. Barbara and Adam
text: back out of the room but stop to listen.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: The Deetz's around the dining room table. There are
text: candles and good china laid out-- but they're eating
text: out of Chinese take-out boxes.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: I can't believe that we're eating
dialog: Cantonese. Is there no Szechuan
dialog: up here? Hunan?
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: There's only one Chinese
dialog: restaurant out here, darling, the
dialog: owners are Irish and Irish people
dialog: happen to cook Cantonese. They
dialog: don't know better.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I plan to have a stroke from the
dialog: amount of MSG that's in this food.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: This is our first meal in this
dialog: house, Lydia. Why don't we all do
dialog: our little private parts to make
dialog: it a pleasant one?
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Lydia, relax. We'll build you a
text: darkroom in the basement.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (dramatically)
dialog: My whole life is a darkroom!
text: One... big... dark... room.
text: Delia rolls her eyes and nods. She's been through this
dialog: before.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Nonsense... you'll go to school,
dialog: maybe meet a farm boy.
text: Delia laughs. Charles smiles.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (doleful)
dialog: Yeah, maybe if he's nice, he'll
dialog: let me hang myself from a rope in
dialog: his barn.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Lydia, in a couple of years this
dialog: whole town will be filled with
dialog: people like us.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: We'll be the art center of summer
dialog: New York. I'll start sculpting
dialog: again... I'll teach those gallery
dialog: bastards to refuse my sculpture.
dialog: And when Otho and I get through
dialog: with this house, you people are
dialog: not going to recognize it.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (dramatically)
dialog: I say let's keep it the way it is.
text: Delia stares at Lydia.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Good idea!
text: Delia shifts her glare to Charles.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I do. I really like it. I
dialog: mean, it's already sort of like
dialog: somebody's home, isn't it? Their
text: couch is comfortable and doesn't
dialog: stick to your legs. It smells
dialog: like a real home, not a French
dialog: whorehouse.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Lydia, at your age, you are so
dialog: young.
dialog: (back to business)
dialog: Charles, we need to call that
dialog: awful Jane Butterfield tomorrow
text: and get the key to the attic door.
dialog: Can't you find a way to hold back
dialog: some of her commission?
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: We're going to have a lot to do
dialog: tomorrow...
text: The Goodwill truck is coming.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: ... and whatever is up there in
text: that attic goes away with it.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Should have it fumigated, too. I
dialog: saw a fly today.
text: Lydia looks at them with a mixture of sadness and
dialog: anger.
scene_heading: OUTSIDE THE DOOR - ON THE STAIRS
text: -- listening, sit Barbara and Adam. A tear rolls down
text: her face.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Adam and Barbara are lying down on the floor, peering
text: out of one of the small windows overlooking the front
text: yard of the house. The handbook open in front of them.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT YARD - ADAM AND BARBARA'S POV - DAY
text: The entire front yard is alive with workmen and their
text: vehicles. Plumbers, electricians, cable TV men, etc.
text: In the road on front of the house are several cars of
text: rubbernecking locals, astonished by all the activity.
text: The City has come to Town. Moving men continue to move
text: in the Deetz' modern, expensive and ugly furniture.
text: They collide with Goodwill men coming out with the
text: Maitlands' lovely antiques and personal possessions.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Adam and Barbara just look at one another as if to say
text: "We're next!" Adam leafs through the handbook furi-
dialog: ously.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Look in the index...
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Not really... what's this?
text: Adam pulls from the book an ancient, yellowed,
text: crumbling handbill. He carefully opens it.
text: ON handbill -- very primitive, crude, red printing.
speaker_heading: ADAM (V.O.)
dialog: (reading)
dialog: Having difficulty adjusting?
dialog: Is death a problem and not a
dialog: solution? Unhappy with eternity?
dialog: Troubled by the living? Call
text: Betelgeuse, the bio-exorcist.
dialog: That's Betelgeuse, Betel...
text: The remainder of the sheet is torn off.
text: ON Barbara -- fingering the torn edge. Looking in the
dialog: book for the remainder. No luck.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: That's it? No number, or
dialog: instructions?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Nothing. The bio-exorcist? I
dialog: don't get it...
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: Charles, away from the chaos outside is calmly steeping
text: a mug of herb tea. His solitude is interrupted by a
text: 2500 lb. Vulcan range breaking through a too-small
text: kitchen window.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (shouting through
dialog: the window)
dialog: What the hell are you trying to do
dialog: out there?
speaker_heading: DELIA - OUTSIDE
text: is berating the inept crane operator and shrieks
text: periodically at some fine art movers who are struggling
text: under her horrid modern welded steel sculptures.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
text: snaps photos of the mayhem. She stops to scan the whole
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: LYDIA'S POV
text: When her gaze reaches to top of the house, she suddenly
text: glimpses Barbara and Adam's faces in the window.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Lydia blinks hard. Her mouth drops open. She looks
text: all around -- as if she'd just seen a ghost or two.
scene_heading: JANE BUTTERFIELD'S CAR
text: pulls up. Little Jane sits in the front seat, burdened
text: with an enormous stack of collated and stapled copies.
text: Lydia catches sight of Jane and runs over.
text: Little Jane locks her door, in fear of Lydia-the
text: strange. Lydia stares at her.
speaker_heading: LITTLE JANE
dialog: Are you a boy or a girl?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I only speak to vertebrates.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: What happened to the people who
dialog: used to live here?
speaker_heading: LITTLE JANE
dialog: (ratty little voice)
dialog: They drowned!
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Yes, they were family. I was
dialog: devastated.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Here, darling.
text: Jane hands a key to Lydia.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (impressed)
dialog: Is this the key to the attic?
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: That's a skeleton key. It'll open
dialog: any door in that house. Will you
dialog: give it to your father?
dialog: (handing her a
dialog: business card)
dialog: And you might mention that I
text: single-handedly decorated the
dialog: house. In case he needs advice in
dialog: that area. Come see me.
text: Jane goes away.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: Lydia's face sobers as she looks up at the now empty
text: attic window.
speaker_heading: DELIA (O.S.)
dialog: Help! Get off me!
text: Lydia drops the skeleton key into her pocket surrepti-
text: tiously. She follows Delia's SHRIEKING.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - DAY
text: Lydia rounds the corner to see Delia, pinned flat
text: against the house by one of her horrid steel sculp-
text: tures. Two movers are struggling to free her. Lydia
text: snaps a quick photograph.
text: They finally free Delia. She clutches at her head,
text: just short of tearing her hair out.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: You jerks! That is my art, and it
dialog: is dangerous! You think I want to
dialog: want to die like that?
dialog: (seeing Lydia)
text: Lydia. Moving is a family affair.
dialog: So buckle down now and go get
dialog: Mommy some drugs.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Any particular kind?
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Joke! Joke! Aspirin!
text: Lydia walks off toward the house.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Barbara is half-hiding on the edge of the window.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: That little girl saw us.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: She couldn't have. We can't make
dialog: them see us.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: But she saw us. I could feel it.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (pause, thinking
dialog: that over)
dialog: That's all we need.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY
text: Lydia looks up the stairs at the attic landing. She's
text: a little scared. She decides to go up the dark stairs.
speaker_heading: IN THE HALL
text: At the end of the hall stands Charles, directing men
text: who are carrying books into the room that will be his
dialog: study.
text: He continues on.
text: A BLAST of STEAM
text: fills the hallway, because workmen are already going at
text: the wallpaper. Lydia emerges from it. Looking up at
text: stairway to attic, mounting courage.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRCASE TO ATTIC - DAY
text: Lydia creeps upward, taking the skeleton key from her
scene_heading: pocket. FLOORBOARDS SQUEAK.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Adam works on his model. He hears the SQUEAK, looks up
text: confidently.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Don't worry. I've locked it.
text: Barbara smiles and knits while rocking in her chair.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC LANDING
text: Lydia quietly inserts the key in the lock of the attic
text: door. She turns it. The key is stiff. She turns
text: harder. It's stuck. Lydia tries the door -- it's no
text: go. She turns the key again. This time it goes all
dialog: the way around.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Barbara and Adam, surprised by the key, look at each
text: other, carefully, very quietly, stand up and tiptoe
text: toward door.
text: ON THE SCREEN OF AN OLD TV SET
text: in the corner of the attic -- Suddenly -- a ghostly
text: image POPS ON.
scene_heading: ON TV - A BIZARRE, SMALLISH FELLOW
text: outfitted in a too-big cowboy hat, bad wig, and over-
text: sized sunglasses appears on screen singing very
text: quickly. (It's a heavily disguised BETELGEUSE.)
speaker_heading: BEHIND HIM
text: the CAMERA QUICKLY PANS an assortment of tombstones a
dialog: la Cal Worthington.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Have the living got you down?
dialog: Betelgeuse!
dialog: Are they jacking you around?
dialog: Betelgeuse!
dialog: Have you broken out in hives
dialog: 'Cause you're tired of their jive?
dialog: I will drive them from your
dialog: hive... Betelgeuse!
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: CAMERA TILTS DOWN a flashing tombstone with
text: "BETELGEUSE" written on it. Adam rushes over to shut
text: it off. He can't find a plug. He looks around behind
text: set... no workings inside at all. He peers around to
text: the screen. It is blank. Suddenly -- Betelgeuse POPS
scene_heading: ON AGAIN.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Say it once... Betelgeuse
dialog: Say it twice... Betelgeuse.
dialog: The third time's a charm...
dialog: Betelgeuse!
dialog: Come on down!
text: He POPS OFF. Adam and Barbara stare at each other.
scene_heading: INT. LANDING - DAY
text: Lydia listens. Did she hear something? She puts her
text: hand on the knob and tries to turn it. It's stuck.
text: Then the key eerily pops out of the lock and falls on
dialog: the floor.
text: Charles' head suddenly appears behind her. Scares her.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: What are you doing?
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC
text: Adam is holding on tight to the knob of the door. With
text: her knitting needle, Barbara has poked the key out.
text: The two stand absolutely still, listening, terrified of
text: the living intruders.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC LANDING - LYDIA AND CHARLES
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I was just trying to open the
text: door. Mrs. Butterfield brought
text: over a skeleton key.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Let me have it.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Barbara and Adam tighten.
text: ON THE LANDING
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: But it doesn't work.
text: She hands her father the key. He looks at it and
text: throws it in the corner.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Skeleton keys never work. Anyway,
dialog: this can wait. We'll get a
dialog: crowbar later. Where's your
dialog: mother?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (very quick de-
dialog: cisive delivery)
dialog: Stepmother.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: I'm going down to relax. I want a
dialog: noise-free zone. Do you
dialog: understand? Noise-free.
text: He goes down the stairs.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Dad?
text: He continues.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (irritated, over
dialog: his shoulder)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I'm lonely.
text: A BLAST OF STEAM from below drowns out her words.
text: Charles stops and turns around. The BLAST STOPS.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: What?
scene_heading: TIGHT ON LYDIA
text: She is resolved.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Nothing.
text: Charles continues. She begins to follow slowly.
speaker_heading: ON KEY
text: behind Lydia. WIDEN as Adam rushes out the door, grabs
text: the key and rushes back in again. Lydia hears some-
text: thing but doesn't see.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC
text: Barbara and Adam have moved away from the door.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (looking through
dialog: the handbook)
dialog: We need some help. I found
dialog: something this morning. Here.
dialog: Emergencies.
dialog: (reads)
dialog: "In case of emergency, draw door."
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Draw door? I don't know why we
dialog: keep looking in that stupid book.
text: Adam takes a piece of chalk and draws a little door on
text: the exposed brick of the chimney.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You don't actually think this
dialog: is going to work?
text: Adam draws a doorknob. Then he tries to turn it. The
text: door, perhaps to his surprise, fails to open.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Yet another triumph for Adam and
dialog: Barbara in the afterlife. Why
dialog: don't we try this Beetle guy??...
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Wait.
text: He looks at book, then writes on the door: KNOCK AND
text: ENTER. He exchanges a glance with Barbara. She's even
text: more skeptical than before. Turns away in disgust.
text: Adam knocks on the door, and turns the knob. Nothing.
text: She is more disgusted. Adam goes back to the book.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Aha! Knock three times.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: He knocks three times. Turns knob. The chalked door
text: swings magnificently open.
text: Behind is an eerie light source, SOARING MUSIC, maybe
text: even a heavenly choir singing pear-shaped syllables.
text: Barbara and Adam look at one another again. They hold
text: hands and step tentatively through.
text: Their figures are lost in the blinding light.
text: They start to shut door after them.
text: ON THE ATTIC LANDING
text: Lydia is staring at the light pouring from under the
text: attic door. It suddenly goes out.
speaker_heading: ON LYDIA
text: She is dumbfounded. She listens.
text: ON THE LANDING
text: Lydia speeds down the steps.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLES' STUDY - DAY
text: Charles, fiercely intent on relaxing, paces like a
text: catfish out of water. Ralph Lauren in K-mart. He
text: stretches. He sits uneasily in an easy chair, tries
text: like hell to get comfortable. Finally, he puts a book
text: under his bottom to get sitting straight. Looks around
text: tapping his fingers. What to do? Looks at watch.
text: He takes down a book from Adam's library, it is an
text: Audubon book of birds. He whips through it like it's
text: the comics and then looks around for more.
text: He finds the "Illustrated Walden" by Thoreau. He
text: speed reads it.
text: He is now really bored. Goes to the fireplace, tries
text: to light it. Cannot do it. Goes to desk and writes:
scene_heading: OTHO-INSTALL GAS FIRE LOGS IN
speaker_heading: STUDY.
text: He studies bird posters. Finds beautiful cardinal
dialog: picture.
text: Takes field glasses and looks out window.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Spies big ugly-looking ratty bird devouring something.
speaker_heading: ON CHARLES
text: horrified. Wrinkles his nose.
text: Lydia enters. He jumps.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Jesus Christ!
text: Lydia is shocked.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Darling, can't you see I'm
dialog: relaxing in here!
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Well I just wanted to tell you
dialog: what I saw.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Lydia. What the hell is the point
dialog: of my moving up here if you people
dialog: won't let me relax? Go help your
dialog: mother.
text: Charles returns to field glasses, spies something. She
text: looks at him in frustration.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (on her way out)
dialog: Fine. Maybe you can relax in a
dialog: haunted house. But I can't.
text: She exits. Charles peers after her, brow furrowed.
text: Looks out again at the village. Uses his field glasses
dialog: to get a better look.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: It is the Bozman Building. Ernie is out front pol-
dialog: ishing the brass lion.
speaker_heading: ON CHARLES
text: He thinks. Moves the field glasses to punctuate his
text: discovery of the building. (His eyes never leave field
dialog: glasses throughout the following.)
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Nice building... Bad paint. Good
dialog: lines... bad roof. Good
dialog: parking... hmmm???
text: That really registers with him. Without looking, he
text: dials a familiar number on the phone with one hand,
text: lifts the receiver. He clacks his teeth together pur-
dialog: posefully.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY'S VOICE
dialog: Botco International.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Yes, I'd like to speak with Maxie
dialog: Dean.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY'S VOICE
dialog: He's not in right now.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Well tell him that Charles Deetz
dialog: called.
text: He hangs up and continues to spy on Bozman Building.
text: Clacks his teeth.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: My God what I could do with that
dialog: parking.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: TIGHT SHOT - BARBARA AND ADAM
text: Very still, they look cautiously to the right and left
text: -- just with their eyes. They're astounded by what
text: they see, though we don't yet see it.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: ... Not what I expected when we
dialog: walked through that door.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No. But it's somewhere without big
dialog: worms.
text: CAMERA DRAWS BACK and we find that Adam and Barbara are
dialog: in:
scene_heading: INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY
dialog: The most unpleasant waiting room that you ever remember
text: waiting in. Fifties furniture with broken legs,
text: couches propped up on telephone books.
text: Standing ashtrays with dirty stand. Linoleum floors
dialog: patched a hundred times. National Geographics with the
text: covers torn off. The "Take a number" registers in the
dialog: millions.
text: AS THE CAMERA COMPLETES A CIRCLE OF THE ROOM
text: We see a RECEPTIONIST. She's the quintessential 50's
dialog: receptionist -- tight sweater, bullet-breasted bra,
text: bleached hair, red lipstick. She's wearing a ribbon
text: across her breast reading "MISS ARGENTINA" and there
text: are knife slashes across both wrists.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: You don't have an appointment, do
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: W... We didn't know how to make one.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: An appointment for what?
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We need some help.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Already? You just bit the big one
dialog: nine months ago and you want help?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Nine months? What difference does
dialog: that make?
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: Good luck. You're going to use up
dialog: all your help vouchers.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Help vouchers?
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: D-90's. You spend a hundred
dialog: and twenty-five years on earth,
dialog: actually, in that house, during
dialog: which you get only three class-one
dialog: D-90 intercessions with Juno. You
dialog: probably haven't even read through
dialog: the manual completely yet.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Why three?
speaker_heading: TYPIST
text: Behind the Receptionist holds up both hands each of
text: which have only three fingers on them.
speaker_heading: TYPIST
dialog: Rule Number Three. Everything
dialog: comes in threes...
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: You'll have to wait if you don't
dialog: have an appointment.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: How long do we have to wait?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Wait for who?
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: For Juno, your caseworker. Not
dialog: that it matters to your type. But
dialog: there are all these other people
dialog: here ahead of you. I'd say 3
dialog: hours.
text: The waiting room is now filled with people. Dead
text: people, some in fairly awful states. A cornucopia of
text: carnal shreddage.
text: Adam and Barbara look around for a moment, then very
text: quietly, they reach out to grasp hands.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Number 54 million, six hundred
dialog: one. Ferndock.
text: CAMERA PUSHES IN CLOSE.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC LANDING - DAY
text: Lydia kneels down with a screwdriver, a nail file, an
text: ice pick, and a credit card. She inserts nail file
text: into the door. She struggles, and after several
text: attempts -- finally uses the ice pick and POP! The
text: door swings open ominously.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Lydia enters. The room is dim, and filled with dust
text: motes. There are shadows in all the corners.
text: She bumps into a switch which engages the model sun and
text: moon and that eerily illuminates the model town. She's
text: frightened, then entranced.
text: She peers at it from different angles, her fear for-
text: gotten. She notes small tools scattered around an
text: unfinished area. She continues around the model,
text: oblivious to everything else. Then...
text: She kicks something. Ducks under the table and comes
text: up with something, holds it up to the light. It's the
text: handbook. She looks through it. Finds the marked
text: page... looks at the chalk door.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - DAY
text: Barbara and Adam are still holding hands, as if they
text: hadn't moved. Like waiting for an IRS audit.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (to Adam)
dialog: Is this what happens when you die?
text: The Receptionist overhears. She points at Barbara.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: This is what happens when YOU die.
dialog: (points to another
dialog: corpse)
dialog: That is what happens when HE dies.
dialog: That is what happens when THEY
dialog: die. It's highly personal. And
dialog: I'll tell you something... if I
dialog: knew then what I know now... I
dialog: wouldn't have had my little
dialog: "accident!"
text: She holds up her wrists and smiling at her little joke,
text: wriggles them indicating her slashes.
speaker_heading: OTHER CORPSES
dialog: (all together)
dialog: Amen!
text: Barbara and Adam look at them. Corpses resume doing
text: what they were doing. A GRINDING NOISE O.S. -- The
text: Receptionist looks up.
dialog: Barbara and Adam also look O.S.
speaker_heading: THEIR POV
text: A Message delivery wire GRINDS along loudly on a
text: pulley. The actual message is held in the hand of the
text: MESSENGER, a flattened corpse, suspended as if on a
text: shirt clothesline, tire marks on his face and clothing.
text: A major roadkill. Dust and gravel ground into him. He
text: smiles wanly at Barbara and Adam as the Receptionist
text: takes a message on a piece of paper and reads it.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Maitland, party of two! Take your
text: handbook and go to the sixth door.
text: Barbara and Adam upset at the loss of their handbook...
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We forgot our handbook.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Lydia is studying the handbook with intense interest.
speaker_heading: CHARLES (O.S.)
dialog: (from distant
dialog: downstairs)
dialog: Lydia, Delia needs your help!
text: Lydia gives one more look at the book, and then goes to
text: the door quickly and silently.
speaker_heading: CHARLES (O.S.)
dialog: Right now, Delia says!
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - DAY
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: (shaking her head
dialog: in disgust)
text: Out that way, through the typing
text: pool, down the corridor, sixth
dialog: door on your left. Sixth door.
text: Two threes.
dialog: (shaking her head)
dialog: Airhead.
text: Adam and Barbara walk through a door.
scene_heading: INT. TYPING POOL - DAY
text: A vast room of desks arranged in a grid, straight
text: out of "How To Succeed In Business"... Each desk is
text: occupied, too, but most of the secretaries are merely
text: skeletons, or mouldering corpses slumped over their
dialog: typewriters.
text: Only one secretary, somewhere in the vast grid, is
text: typing slowly, with long pauses between words.
text: The Messenger on his return trip, parallels Barbara and
text: Adam as they walk along. Barbara can't look at him.
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: How do I look? There're no
text: mirrors on this side.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (trying to be
dialog: pleasant)
dialog: Fine, you look fine.
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: Thanks. I've been feeling a
dialog: little flat.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: He laughs at his own joke as he goes back through the
text: very, very narrow slot in the wall where the line
text: runs. Adam and Barbara look to the right and left.
text: A vast stack of files slips off a desk and spills out
text: onto the floor.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - DAY
text: Barbara and Adam enter corridor.
text: Empty, like a hotel corridor, but all the doors are of
text: different types -- a revolving door, a dutch door,
text: church doors. They walk past a waist-high window,
text: covered by a roll-up shade.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: A hundred twenty-five years!
dialog: I can't believe it. I can't
dialog: believe they didn't tell us.
text: She bumps into the shade and it rolls up FLAPPING. She
text: stares in through the window. Adam peers in it too.
speaker_heading: THEIR POV
text: A smouldering, mist-filled room. From the smoky plasma
text: floats an occasional tortured soul. Unspeakably SAD
text: MUSIC wafts from within. They get only a glimpse of
text: the bodies in this horrible human soup.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Adam, look at this.
text: Suddenly, floating up from below, immediately on the
text: other side of the window, a white-crepe face emerges.
text: It seems to be that of a woman, her eyes are red and
text: blue tears rim them. Her pale skin is covered with a
text: flaking crust of salt. She wears the saddest look
text: ever. Her mouth opens plaintively but no sound comes.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Oh, Adam... what is this?
text: A reflection joins them on their side of the window.
scene_heading: A SINISTER LITTLE JANITOR
text: wizened and efficient, pulls the shade down firmly.
speaker_heading: SINISTER MAN
dialog: That's the lost souls room.
dialog: A room for ghosts who have been
dialog: exorcised. Poor devils. That's
dialog: death for the dead. It's all in
dialog: the handbook. Keep moving.
text: The man scuttles off. Adam and Barbara walk on sadly,
text: until they come to a door that looks exactly like the
text: swinging door between the kitchen and dining room of
dialog: their house.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: This is it... the sixth door.
text: Puzzled -- Barbara pushes it.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Everything is dark, quiet -- but the furniture is
text: obviously not theirs, and neither is the decoration.
text: Adam and Barbara exchange glances, and push on through
text: into the living room.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Quiet, dark. Everyone's asleep.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: My God, we're back home.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Look at this, everything is
dialog: different down here. All our
text: furniture is gone.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: How long do you suppose we were
dialog: waiting?
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: Three months.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: A spot comes on, revealing JUNO -- their caseworker.
dialog: She's an older woman, no nonsense about her. Over-
text: dressed in an outfit that includes a blouse with
text: ruffled cuffs. We will at some point catch a glimpse
text: of her slashed throat -- she smokes heavily. Occa-
text: sionaly smoke puffs from her cut throat.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: I'd nearly given up on you. I was
dialog: about to leave. I do have other
dialog: clients.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Are you Juno, our caseworker?
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: Yes. I evaluate individual cases
dialog: and determine if help is needed,
dialog: deserved, and available.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We need help. We deserve help.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Are you available?
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: No.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We're very unhappy.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: What do you expect? You're dead.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: We'd like some help in getting rid
dialog: of the people who moved in here.
dialog: Barbara and I worked very hard on
dialog: this house.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We probably wouldn't mind sharing
dialog: the house with people who were --
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: -- like you used to be?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: But these people --
text: He indicates a particularly bad piece of Delia's sculp-
text: ture. Juno walks around it shaking her head.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE
text: The following conversation takes place as Barbara and
text: Adam follow Juno as she looks around the house and ends
text: up in their attic space.
speaker_heading: JUNO
text: Things seem pretty quiet here.
dialog: You should thank God you didn't
dialog: die in Italy.
dialog: (checking the file)
dialog: The Deetzes. Okay. Have you been
dialog: studying the manual?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: We tried.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: The Intermediate Interface chapter
dialog: on Haunting says it all. Get 'em
dialog: out yourself. It's your house.
dialog: Haunted houses don't come easy.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We don't quite get it.
text: Juno's watch BUZZES, she stops it.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: I heard.
dialog: (refers to her file)
dialog: Tore your face right off! Bad
dialog: news. It obviously doesn't do
dialog: any good to pull your heads off in
text: front of people if they can't see
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: We have to start simpler, is that
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: Start simply. Do what you know.
dialog: Use your talents. Practice. We
dialog: only help those who help
dialog: themselves. Just do a little at a
dialog: time. And of course, practice,
dialog: practice, practice. It's tricky
dialog: but -- you weren't murderers by
dialog: any chance, were you?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: Pity. Murderers seem to have an
dialog: easy time of it. Just look at
dialog: Amityville.
dialog: (reminiscing)
dialog: He was one of my boys. Didn't
dialog: have to give that one any lessons.
dialog: From day one... But I must be
dialog: off... I've got a plane load of
dialog: football players crashed in the
dialog: midwest... they need a lot of
dialog: help, just with the basics.
text: Points at her head indicating dumbness.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: If... we have trouble. What about
dialog: the guy in the flyer? Betelge...
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (quickly interrupt-
dialog: ing her)
dialog: Don't say his name, you don't want
dialog: his help.
text: Adam and Barbara look at each other. Puzzled.
speaker_heading: ADAM & BARBARA
dialog: Well... We might...
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Juno peers into the model cemetery with interest. A
text: FLY BUZZES around her. Juno blows it away. Fly flees.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: No you don't! He does not work
dialog: well with others.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: What do you mean? What's he do?
text: A grave look comes over Juno's face as the light
text: changes to suggest someone telling a ghost story around
text: a campfire.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: I wasn't going to bring it up --
dialog: but rather than have you stumble
dialog: into it and make another mistake,
dialog: I'll tell you --
text: (she nervously puffs
dialog: her cigarette)
dialog: He was my assistant, but he was a
dialog: troublemaker...
dialog: He went out on his own as a free-
dialog: lance bio-exorcist -- claims to
dialog: get rid of the living... got into
dialog: more trouble -- you remember the
dialog: Chicago Fire...
text: Adam and Barbara look at each other. Juno continues.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: He was demoted to a Grade-6
dialog: malevolent spirit. He's been
dialog: imprisoned on that plane ever
dialog: since... in fact, I believe he's
dialog: been sleezing around your cemetery
dialog: lately. He can only be brought
dialog: back by saying his name three
dialog: times.
text: Adam and Barbara attempt to interrupt --
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: But I strongly suggest that you
dialog: remove the Deetz's yourself.
text: She takes a final drag on the cigarette and smoke
text: billows out the hole in her throat. Juno starts to
speaker_heading: FADE.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: And if we need you again, how do
dialog: we...?
text: Juno fades. Gone. Barbara goes to the model, looks
text: at the cemetery.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: That guy is in our cemetery. Oh,
dialog: Adam.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (holds her shoul-
dialog: ders, calms her)
dialog: Look, she's right. We'll just
dialog: start simple, honey, be tougher.
dialog: I feel... confident. C'mon.
text: They exit.
scene_heading: CAMERA FOLLOWS ACTION - OVER THE MODEL
text: The FLY BUZZES. It lands and crawls along into the model of
dialog: the cemetery.
speaker_heading: THE FLY
text: resplendently green and iridescent, pauses and fiddles
text: with its hairy parts. Starts to walk by.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Pssstt! Over here!
text: Fly stops. Tilts its multi-eyed head.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: Two hands come up from the earth of that grave holding
text: a candy bar.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: I can't use this. You should have
dialog: it. Flies get so little respect
dialog: anymore.
scene_heading: THE FLATTERED FLY
text: walks over to the grave. In a flash, the hands grab
text: the struggling fly and dance it like a doll over the
text: grave and then pull it into the earth.
speaker_heading: FLY
dialog: Buzzz!
dialog: (turns into)
dialog: Help me! Help me!
text: A MANIACAL LAUGH grows from the grave. WIND BLOWS as
text: the Fly disappears. Ivy whips away from the grave-
text: stone. We see, for the first time, the chiseled name:
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
text: CLAP OF THUNDER.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLES' STUDY - NIGHT
text: Charles is on the phone. He has drawings laid out in
text: front of him. He is at his most urban persuasive, and
text: oddly relaxed -- he is finally in his own element.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Maxie, have I not always made you
dialog: money? I think that is the only
dialog: real question here.
scene_heading: INT. MAXIE'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: New York office, cool design, black couch, and MAXIE
text: DEAN, a 55-year-old, super tan, white-haired wheeler
text: dealer. Sign says: CHAIRMAN of BOTCO INDUSTRIES.
text: Maxie looks rich and he looks cool as he talks to
text: Charles. Behind him, Sarah, his rich-looking blonde
text: wife, is looking at herself in a mirror.
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: Well, Charles -- no one has made me
dialog: money like you. Until your nerves
dialog: went, you were a demon. It is
dialog: just that... Winter River,
dialog: Connecticut is, you'll forgive me,
dialog: no fucking where. Why would I
dialog: invest that kind of money to buy
dialog: an old building way the hell up
dialog: there?
scene_heading: INTERCUT CONVERSATION
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Not a building! That's the beauty
dialog: of it. I think I can buy the
dialog: whole town. These people don't
dialog: know the value of their property!
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: Then we own a whole town full of
dialog: nowhere.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: No, No -- C'mon, Max, you know
dialog: me. I've got plans. You gotta
dialog: come up here and see, then I'll
dialog: tell you about it.
text: Maxie isn't much interested.
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: Well, sure, Charles, but I am busy
dialog: here... you know how it was when
dialog: you were active.
text: This burns Charles. But he swallows it. He hears
text: something in the corridor outside -- a kind of LOW
scene_heading: MOANING.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (into telephone)
dialog: Just a minute, Maxie. Somebody.
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: No listen... we'll talk about
dialog: this visiting later, I gotta go,
dialog: I gotta meeting on the Japanese
dialog: joint venture.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (torn between the
speaker_heading: MOANING and Maxie)
dialog: Great idea, Maxie! Those Japanese
dialog: could run it for us. Listen,
dialog: think right about it, will you?
dialog: We've almost got the house ready,
dialog: you bring Sarah with you and I'll
dialog: show you.
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: Yeah yeah, we'll think on it.
dialog: Bye ya, Charles. You relax up
dialog: there, ya hear?
text: Maxie hangs up. Shakes his head.
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Putz! Inter River? My ass.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLES' STUDY - NIGHT
text: Charles hangs up frustrated. MOANING INCREASES. He
text: goes to the door and flings it open.
text: A figure is right there in the doorway -- A ghost under
text: a sheet. But a "designer" sheet. He wails away like a
text: banshee. Eyeholes cut in sheets, Charles jumps, re-
dialog: covers.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Oh, Jesus, Lydia! Is Connecticut
dialog: so boring that you have to think
dialog: up shit like this?
text: ON Barbara, she stands back away from the door observ-
text: ing skeptically.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I had Maxie Dean on the phone!
dialog: Darling, Dad's found a way to make
dialog: some money here while I relax, so
dialog: scram!
text: He slams the door, turns around. Then turns around
text: again, and jerks the door open. The ghost is retreat-
dialog: ing, beaten.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: And your mother is going to kill
dialog: you when she sees that you cut
dialog: holes in her $300 sheets. You
dialog: provoke her you know. I mean she
dialog: can be an unreasonable bitch. But
dialog: you do provoke her.
text: He SLAMS the door again.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Adam helps Barbara on with her sheet.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: God, this is so corny. Have we
dialog: been reduced to this? Sheets?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Think of them as death shrouds.
dialog: And the moaning is important.
dialog: Really moan!
dialog: (imitating Juno)
dialog: Practice, practice, practice.
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Television still going, Delia asleep with curlers.
text: Adam and Barbara glide inside, go over and stand beside
dialog: the bed.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Deep breath... and...
scene_heading: INT. LYDIA'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: She has her ever-present camera around her neck. Sud-
text: denly hears MOANS from her parents' room. Thinking it
text: is sexual, she cringes. Covers her ears.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Gross! How can he stand that
dialog: woman?
dialog: (louder)
dialog: Hey, cut it out! I'm a child!
dialog: For God sakes!
text: The NOISE gets weirder. Lydia gets interested.
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Adam and Barbara moan and groan. Delia doesn't stir.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I feel really stupid.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: It's not stupid. We're ghosts.
dialog: Do you want this woman for
dialog: breakfast for 125 years? Moan
dialog: louder!
text: Barbara moans louder and more weirdly.
text: Delia stirs, sits up, but doesn't open her eyes.
text: Adam and Barbara are excited then... disappointed as
text: Delia fumbles on the bedside table for the remote con-
text: trol device, and without opening her eyes, turns off
text: the television set. Then she turns over, and is lost
dialog: to the world totally.
text: Barbara sighs. She and Adam walk toward the door.
text: When they open it however, Lydia is standing there in
text: her pajamas -- she snaps a FLASH Polaroid -- and Adam
text: and Barbara jump backwards with yelps of fright.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Sick! Sexual perversion! If
dialog: you're going to do weird sexual
dialog: stuff you ought to stay in your
dialog: bedroom, okay?
text: Lydia starts back into her room. Then looks at the
text: developing photograph. Something catches her eye.
text: Lydia yelps with fear.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Holy cow! No feet!
text: She screams. Adam and Barbara scream. Lydia rushes
text: back toward them, starts flashing pictures.
text: Adam and Barbara run around and are pushed into a
text: corner. Polaroids fly everywhere.
text: Lydia runs out of film. She stares at them, panting
text: with fear. A standoff.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: A... Are you the guys who're
dialog: hiding out in the attic?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (fake terror voice)
dialog: We're ghosts.
text: Barbara moans.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (skeptical, cautious)
dialog: W... What do you look like under
dialog: there?
text: Adam and Barbara pull shut bedroom door, go out into
text: the hall -- as if to keep from waking Delia with their
dialog: conversation.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: All three stare at each other tentatively.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Aren't you scared?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I'm not scared of Ralph Lauren.
dialog: Those are sheets. Are you gross
dialog: under there? Are you "Night of
dialog: the Living Dead" under there?
dialog: Like all bloody veins and pus?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: "Night of the Living Dead?" It's
text: a movie.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (pulling off
dialog: the sheet)
dialog: If I had seen a ghost at your age,
dialog: I would have been frightened out
dialog: of my wits.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: You're not gross. Why were you
dialog: wearing a sheet?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We're practicing.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: You can actually see us? Without
dialog: the sheets?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Is this like a trick question?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Tell the truth.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (offended)
dialog: Of course I can see you.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Nobody else can.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I'm wearing contacts... Also I
dialog: read through the "Handbook for the
dialog: Recently Deceased." It says that
text: live people ignore the strange and
dialog: unusual... I, myself, am strange
dialog: and unusual.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (tenderly)
dialog: You look like a regular girl to me.
text: Lydia blushes. Barbara smiles warmly. She is begin-
dialog: ning to like Lydia.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: You read our book? Could you
dialog: follow it?
text: Lydia nods her head.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Why are you creeping around
dialog: Delia's bedroom?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: We were trying to scare your
dialog: mother.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Stepmother. I'm very sensitive
dialog: about being related to reptiles.
text: Barbara smiles.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You can't scare her. She's
dialog: sleeping with Prince Valium
dialog: tonight.
dialog: (defiantly)
dialog: I stole the key to your attic, you
dialog: know.
text: Adam and Barbara look at each other.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Maybe we better talk.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC ROOM - NIGHT
text: Adam's rigged up the moon, and stars, too. Adam and
text: Barbara and Lydia stand just beyond the fringes of the
text: town, dimly lighted giants.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: You did this? You carved all
dialog: these little figures and houses
dialog: and things?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (pleased)
dialog: I certainly did. I'd finish it
dialog: too, but... I don't get out much.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: And this used to be your house, I
dialog: bet. Why do you want to scare
dialog: everybody?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: We want to frighten you away.
dialog: (a little embarrassed)
dialog: So that you'll move out.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: You don't know the Deetz's very
dialog: well, do you? My father bought
dialog: this place. He never walks away
dialog: from equity. Why don't you leave?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We can't. We haven't left the
dialog: house since the funeral.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Funeral. God, you guys really are
dialog: dead!
dialog: (fascinated)
dialog: What was it like? The funeral.
dialog: Did you cry?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: We weren't there. The handbook
dialog: says funerals aren't for the dead.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: God, if this is true this is
dialog: amazing! I kinda like it up
dialog: here. Can I visit you sometimes?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Well, I don't know... We don't get
dialog: many visitors.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: You know you're really a pretty
dialog: girl.
text: Lydia flushes.
speaker_heading: CHARLES (O.S.)
dialog: Lydia!
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I better go...
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Wait... I don't think it would be
dialog: a very good idea if you told your
dialog: parents that we're up here.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Unless you think it would scare
dialog: them off.
text: Lydia starts to exit.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You tell them that we are
dialog: desperate horrible ghoulish
dialog: creatures who will stop at nothing
dialog: to get back our house.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (looks him up
dialog: and down)
dialog: Wait a minute, what if this is a
dialog: dream? Can you do any tricks to
dialog: prove I'm not dreaming?
text: Barbara shakes her head, a little ashamed.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Well, if you are real ghosts, you
dialog: better get another routine, those
dialog: sheets suck!
text: She sneaks a smile at Barbara and exits.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - DAY
text: A big ugly machine is doing something unnecessary to
dialog: the yard.
scene_heading: INT. DARKROOM/BASEMENT - DAY
text: The FAST-TICKING CLOCK is a timer. Lydia is making
text: Polaroid enlargements. She's quick and expert at this.
text: She's examining a print with a magnifying glass.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS BATHROOM - DAY
text: Delia shrieks. Going through the dirty clothes, she's
text: just come across the sheets with the eye holes in them.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Lydia! Lydia! My hands are
text: shredded from doing the laundry,
dialog: and now I have to deal with your
dialog: vandalism!
scene_heading: INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY
text: Lydia, pounding up from the basement with the wet
text: print, collides with Delia, rushing down from the sec-
text: ond floor with the scissored sheets.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Lydia, honest to God I'm going to
dialog: kill you. I'm having a party
dialog: tonight. I'm cooking, I can't get
dialog: servants. Do I need angst? No, I
dialog: certainly do not!
text: Lydia speeds by her.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You owe me three-hundred bucks,
dialog: Lydia! Don't go running to your
dialog: father, you worm.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLES' OFFICE - DAY
text: Lydia rushes in. Charles is working furiously on a
text: word processor, amidst an array of maps and plans.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Dad. Do you believe me?
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Yes. Except when you creep around
dialog: in your mother's --
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Stepmother's...
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: ... sheets.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Well this is... I mean, this is
dialog: the weirdest --
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Lydia, I don't know what it is
dialog: with you and these pratical
dialog: jokes, but --
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: This is not a joke! That sheet
dialog: was full of ghosts.
text: She hands him the photo. He looks. Lydia points
dialog: out...
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: No feet.
text: Charles laughs.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You don't believe me. That sheet
dialog: was full of ghosts. They live
dialog: here.
text: Charles begins to scroll through computer program.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (dismissing it)
dialog: Very clever, Lydia. Now would you
dialog: please -- I'll tell you what... I
dialog: know! You're bored, right? You
dialog: take that camera and your bike
dialog: and photograph every building in
dialog: town. Don't tell anyone what it's
dialog: for...
dialog: (handing her a
dialog: wad of bills)
dialog: Here, take some cash and go do
dialog: it. How's that? You want to
dialog: stretch, don't you?
text: Lydia exits, with determination. Charles looks up on
text: the wall and runs his finger over a plat map of Winter
text: River, just like Adam's in the attic.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Look at the size of these lots...
text: Adam peers at the map, puzzled.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: What is this guy doing?
text: Barbara follows Lydia out. Adam thinks, intrigued.
text: Exits.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Delia is frantically preparing for the evening's dinner
text: party. Lydia is very much in her way, trying to show
text: her the photographs. Delia isn't looking at them.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: I can't believe you are doing this
dialog: to me! Ghosts. I am giving a
dialog: dinner party for seven people
dialog: tonight. Otho has agreed to come
dialog: back for the demolition of the
dialog: attic. My agent, Bernard, is
dialog: bringing some woman who writes for
dialog: "Art in America." In fact, no one
dialog: here tonight has not been in
dialog: "Vanity Fair." Except you.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (resigned)
dialog: I told them you were too mean to
dialog: be afraid.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Don't you dare talk to others
dialog: about me. I'm an artist! The
dialog: only thing that scares me is being
dialog: embarrassed in front of my
dialog: friends. Do you know how hard it
dialog: is to get civilized people to set
dialog: foot in this part of Connecticut?
dialog: Not a solitary word of this
text: pubescent tripe to anyone.
text: Lydia exits angrily.
text: CAMERA HINGES. Barbara is watching, horrified at
text: Delia's occupation of her (Barbara's) kitchen. Adam
text: appears.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: Lydia's trying, but they don't
dialog: believe her.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: She's got photos, Barbara.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Adam, you had a photo of Big Foot!
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: This is different. Eventually
dialog: she'll take someone to the attic.
dialog: And then what? We've got to try
dialog: to contact this guy Betelmyer. We
dialog: gotta get some help, hon.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC ROOM - LATER - DAY
text: Adam looks intently through the book.
text: Barbara's eye is caught by something in the model
text: cemetery. She moves over and sees a small gravestone
text: lit up by neon.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Adam!
text: Adam comes over. Looks.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I didn't do that one... Hmmm.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: It's him. Look... Betelgeuse...
dialog: Betelgeuse...
text: She looks at Adam, "should I?" Adam chews his lip
dialog: thoughtfully.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Go ahead... third time's a charm.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (after a deep breath)
dialog: Betelgeuse!
text: ZAP! They are transported into the model graveyard.
scene_heading: EXT. INSIDE THE MODEL GRAVEYARD - NIGHT
text: WIND BLOWS -- With shovels and lanterns, Adam and
text: Barbara are unlikely gravediggers. The mechanized
text: clouds move in the sky across the mechanical moon,
text: throwing weird shadows everywhere. Ground fog creeps
text: slowly along the graves. It is so eerie.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Three times. Powerful number.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (standing in front
dialog: of grave)
dialog: Bet... el... geuse. What an
dialog: awful name. I thought it was like
dialog: -- you know. The juice of
dialog: beetles.
text: Adam cringes too.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Where is he? What do we do?
text: Adam looks down at the grave. Knocks on the stone.
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Has anything been simple so far?
dialog: From the look of the shovel, we
dialog: dig.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh, Adam. I don't have gloves.
dialog: My nails keep getting longer.
dialog: I'll break them.
text: Hands her a shovel anyway. She digs.
scene_heading: EXT. INSIDE THE MODEL GRAVEYARD - LATER - NIGHT
text: They're almost down six feet. By now they are both
text: almost out of sight in the grave. Inside the grave --
text: Adam suddenly hits wood.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: It's about time.
text: They lean down and brush dirt off a brass plate on the
dialog: coffin.
scene_heading: "BETELGEUSE"
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I guess we open it.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Maybe we should knock first?
text: A slight TREMOR shakes them. They look at each other
text: and try to scramble from the grave.
speaker_heading: TOPSIDE
text: They just barely crawl out when a mouldering corpse
text: springs out of the grave and jumps on Barbara's back,
text: and plants a thousand-year-old kiss on her lips. She
text: screams and burbles. Adam pulls the corpse off her
text: back. The corpse does a Three Stooges hammer on Adam's
dialog: head.
text: Adam staggers backward, unhurt but shocked. All three
dialog: stop.
speaker_heading: ON THE CORPSE
text: Something unreal about him, almost mechanical. Then
text: the corpse, grinning insanely at them, flies straight
text: up into the air over their heads. He CRASHES against
dialog: the tombstone...
text: And Adam and Barbara see the corpse is only a huge
text: marionette on a string and pole. A LAUGH comes from
text: behind the gravestone.
scene_heading: PUPPETEER BETELGEUSE
text: steps out. He looks like someone who just crawled out
text: from under a rock. This is one slippery customer.
text: Betelgeuse speaks in a rapid polyglot, choosing words
dialog: and phrases from every slang in the world. Barbara is
dialog: mighty uneasy.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: All right. Who are you?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We're...
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: You're the dead.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Aren't you dead?
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Hell no! I'm rolling. I'm a
dialog: businessman. I'm the man what
dialog: am. Beeetel Jooose! Who
dialog: do I gotta kill?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: You don't kill anyone.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Just get some people out of our
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Bio busting. I love it. Who do
dialog: I gotta kill? Family -- right?
dialog: Obnoxious, I bet.
dialog: (contorting face)
dialog: Mommie, daddy, piglets.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Just one daughter.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Hey you've been on Saturn!
dialog: (brushing yellow dust
dialog: off her)
dialog: I hate those Sandworms! Yecchhh!
dialog: I've lost a lot of buddies to
dialog: Sandworms.
dialog: (back to work)
dialog: So a daughter? She got good legs?
dialog: God I love a young leg.
text: Air blows up Barbara's dress, exposing her legs. He
text: leers.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: She's only fourteen...
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: ... acts like she's thirty-five.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (rubbing hands)
dialog: How does she feel about short old
dialog: men with dirty ears?
text: Barbara is grossed out and increasingly uneasy. Beetle
text: Juice senses it and gets back to business.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: So you, the dead, want me, the
dialog: undead, to throw the live guys --
dialog: Mommie, Daddy and Lolita, who
dialog: might not mind a tumble with an
dialog: older guy, out into the cold?
dialog: Even though they have paid hard
dialog: casharoonie for your dump?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: But... the Deetzes are destroying
dialog: our house.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (scolding sarcasm)
dialog: You Maitlands are the backbone of
dialog: the afterlife. So what's my cut?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Can you scare them off?
text: Beetle Juice looks offended.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Me, scary? You be the judge.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: He swirls his face and shoulders into a horrifying
text: image. Pleased, he laughs at himself.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (decisively)
dialog: Honey. Let's go.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Go? What d'ya mean? We need
dialog: help.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No, we don't. We can work
dialog: something out ourselves. We just
dialog: have to try harder.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Hold on. Let's not be squeamish,
dialog: missy. You rang my bell, you
dialog: gotta lick the pump. I'm rolling!
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: grabs Adam. Betelgeuse is getting mad. Not pretty.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Folks, be reasonable here. I'm at
dialog: your service. You be the judge.
dialog: I'm a harmless guy. Try me.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Home. Home. Home!
speaker_heading: ZAP
text: They are gone. Betelgeuse is furious.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: You fresh corpse creeps! Who do
dialog: you think you are?... Walking
dialog: away from a professional?
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
text: walks to a tree and kicks it hard. The whole huge tree
dialog: falls, KABLOOM!
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: A small tree falls in the model. Adam, across the
text: room, walks over and straightens it.
text: He looks at Barbara who is poring over the handbook.
text: Making notes. Counting out procedures.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Honey, I think that was a mistake.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I am not going to expose that
dialog: little girl to that... pervert
dialog: down there.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: How'd you do that?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (proud of herself)
dialog: Just a hunch... remember things
dialog: come in threes -- three times in,
dialog: three times out... I'm getting the
dialog: hang of this stuff.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I think we really pissed him off.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I don't care...
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: But we let him out.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I've changed my mind... I feel
dialog: really confident. We're getting
dialog: better at this stuff. We can
dialog: scare them off ourselves --
dialog: tonight! I've got an idea.
dialog: You're going to love it... I'm
dialog: going to hate it.
speaker_heading: ADAM
text: turns to look down at the model again. Straightens the
text: tree. Turns away. We can see a tiny light moving
text: through the tiny model forest towards the house.
speaker_heading: ADAM (V.O.)
dialog: Okay. But that Betelgeuse sure
dialog: seemed mad.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE (V.O.)
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Hi ho, hi ho, it's off to work I
dialog: go!
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Dinner for seven, as promised. Everything looks very
text: nice. Deetzes are in control and in their element.
dialog: The element is neurotic-chic.
text: Some of the guests are affecting distaste for having
dialog: had to make the long drive to Connecticut. There's a
text: bitchy feud going on between GRACE, the "Art In Amer-
text: ica" writer, and BERNARD, Delia's agent, that threatens
text: to become a full-scale war.
text: Otho is drunkish and engaged in his third favorite
dialog: occupation -- direct attacks on the personal weaknesses
text: of his friends. He's singled out his victim, BERYL,
text: the editor for Ballantine, a frail-looking woman who is
text: dressed "artistically."
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (to Beryl)
dialog: Well, darling, you can only have a
dialog: hysterectomy once, so why don't you
dialog: tell us what you really went into
dialog: the hospital for last week? Or dare
dialog: I ask, is that a nose "nouveau?"
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (privately; to
dialog: Otho)
dialog: Otho, you've got to help me get
dialog: Maxie Dean up here. I have a deal
dialog: that could make all of us very
dialog: comfortable.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: He's a cloven-hooved beast!
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: He's your cousin.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: I am ashamed to say he is. Look,
dialog: nothing short of giving away free
dialog: sacks of money would get him up
dialog: here, Charles. And Sarah? Forget
dialog: it. You can't get her out of
text: Bergdorf's with plastic explosives.
dialog: (still on Beryl's
dialog: case)
dialog: I just hope it wasn't yet another of
dialog: your dreary suicide attempts. You
dialog: know what they say about people who
text: who commit suicide. In the afterlife,
dialog: they become civil servants.
speaker_heading: BERNARD
dialog: Otho! I didn't know you were into
dialog: the supernatural?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Of course you remember! After my
dialog: stint with the living theatre. I
dialog: was one of New York City's leading
dialog: paranormal researchers until the
dialog: bottom dropped out of the business
dialog: in '72.
speaker_heading: BERYL
dialog: (sick to death of
dialog: this blowhard)
dialog: Paranormal... Is that what they're
dialog: calling your kind now?
text: Lydia watches Otho thoughtfully. Suddenly very cur-
dialog: ious.
text: Delia senses that Lydia might talk ghosts here.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (a threat; quietly
dialog: to Lydia)
dialog: Don't you dare.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I saw some ghosts.
text: All quiet.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Lydia tried to play a most
dialog: amusing joke on me this afternoon.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: It wasn't a joke.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Tried to convince me that this
dialog: house is haunted. Kids. Kids.
dialog: Kids! I love them.
text: Otho's glance sharpens at this. Everyone else listens.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: By ghosts?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: By what else?
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (laughing it away)
text: In sheets yet. Designer sheets.
dialog: They --
text: Charles, seeing things aren't going well for Delia,
text: proposes a toast.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: I propose a toast to our intrepid
dialog: friends. Who braved the
dialog: expressway and fourteen toll
dialog: booths to visit us. May your
text: buildings go condo.
text: All lift their wineglasses. All drink. All synchro-
text: nously spit out their wine. All together now...
speaker_heading: EVERYONE
dialog: Yechhh!
text: Charles lifts the wine bottle from the cooler. Disgust
text: spans the room.
text: ON bottle -- it bears the familiar spread wings of
dialog: Thunderbird!
speaker_heading: BERYL
dialog: Thunderbird wine? My God, Delia,
dialog: don't you even have a Safeway up
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (horrified; but
dialog: recovering)
dialog: Joke Joke! Charles get the good
dialog: wine and I'll serve the shrimp.
dialog: It's a joke.
text: Delia stares a spike through Lydia. Delia and Charles
text: rush into the kitchen. Otho looks at his glass and
text: peers at Lydia.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Delia rushes to get the sushi. Charles finds some
dialog: good wine.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (rapidly; furious)
dialog: Lydia switched wines. Charles --
dialog: if you do not agree right now, to
dialog: boarding school, you can forget
dialog: having what you call sex -- ever
dialog: again in your natural lifetime.
text: He nods reluctantly. She rushes back to guests.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Lydia is looking around curiously. Delia and Charles
text: rush back in with sushi and good wine. Delia pours for
text: Bernard, the obvious connoisseur. He tastes the wine.
text: All wait. Is it Kerosene du Pape? He smiles. All
dialog: smile.
text: Otho is more interested in Lydia's story. He leans
dialog: toward her...
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Now, Lydia... Favor us about your
dialog: ghosts.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: No! Do not encourage this
dialog: little... person.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Oh, Delia, lighten up!
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: She's been without therapy up here
dialog: and I will not allow her to
dialog: ruin...
dialog: But then:
speaker_heading: DELIA
text: Something comes over her -- she straightens, then
text: crouches a little, her hand sweeps across in front of
text: her, almost mechanically. And then our Delia Deetz,
text: unable to help herself, leaves the whitebread world
text: behind and possessed, sings in someone else's voice, a
dialog: rich, NEGRO TENOR.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: "If I didn't care, More than
dialog: words could say."
text: Lydia's eyes widen. MUSIC UP. All the guests are
text: spellbound.
text: Charles, too, has the beat -- The Ink Spots in his eyes.
text: In a voice not his own.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: "If my every prayer, did not
dialog: begin and end with just your
dialog: name."
text: Delia is shocked. She looks at Lydia.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: For God's sake, stop me...
text: She is cut short by her powerful inspiration.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: "I could not be true to you
dialog: beyond compare."
scene_heading: ALL THE GUESTS
text: except Lydia, are possessed to become the chorus. They
text: stand by their chairs, they spin in perfect Motown
dialog: choreography.
speaker_heading: EVERYONE
dialog: (except Lydia)
dialog: "Shoo doo wop. Shoo doo wop."
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: "If I didn't care... for you..."
speaker_heading: EVERYONE
dialog: "Shoo doo wop. Shoo doo wop."
text: A look of sheer delight comes across Lydia's face,
dialog: unlike anything we have previously seen. She dances
text: and claps her hands in time with the music. She is in
dialog: teen heaven.
text: NOTE: Delia and the guests are fully aware of their
text: singing/actions, but helpless to stop themselves. While
dialog: it is funny, it is nevertheless just a little frighten-
dialog: ing.
text: Lydia excitedly looks around the room to see if she can
text: see the ghosts. She can't.
text: Now the song pauses... Everyone tries to recover for a
text: shocked second. Instead, the tempo changes.
text: As the tempo quickens, the guest/chorus is syncopated
text: like alternating pistons as they are pushed and pulled
text: into their chairs. They sing throughout.
speaker_heading: THE SONG
text: crashes to its end. Bernard looks down at his shrimp
text: cocktail. The shrimp draped over the rice roll
text: suddenly rears up like a hand and, making a tiny fist,
text: grabs his dangling tie and... smash --
text: WIDER -- All the guests are punched by the shrimp, back
text: over their chairs to the ground. They are stunned.
text: Suddenly everyone runs frightened into the next room.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. ATTIC ROOM - NIGHT
text: Adam and Barbara with huge smiles on their faces, dance
text: the bugaloo then hug and kiss on the landing in front
text: of the attic. Door is open.
speaker_heading: TOGETHER
dialog: We did it!
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Let's watch 'em scatter.
text: They enter the attic and run to the window. Look out
text: over the front yard.
scene_heading: YARD OF HOUSE - THEIR POV - NIGHT
text: filled with the cars of the guests, as well as Delia
dialog: and Charles' vehicles.
speaker_heading: ADAM (O.S.)
dialog: Any minute now. They'll all run
text: screaming.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: They wait. Nothing moving outside.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Your Ink Spots were wonderful!
text: Adam smiles proudly.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: And your shrimp was remarkable.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: My shrimp? I did the wine.
dialog: Didn't you do the sushi?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: N... No, I just did the Ink Spots.
speaker_heading: BARBARA (V.O.)
dialog: Who did the?
text: Timid KNOCK at the door of the attic.
text: Barbara glances at Adam. They don't know what to do.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (from outside the
dialog: door)
dialog: It's me. Lydia.
text: Adam, puzzled, goes to the door and opens it. Lydia is
text: standing there, sheepish.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: They'd like for you to come
dialog: downstairs. Delia says you can
dialog: pick any sheets you want.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: The guests are sitting expectantly. The photographs
text: are being passed around. The wheels are turning in
text: Charles' mind -- he sees a gold mine. Everyone speaks
dialog: at once.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: It does indicate a marvelously
dialog: urbane sense of humor on the part
dialog: of these ghosts -- that they
dialog: actually appear in sheets!
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: We're dealing with Tracy and Hepburn
dialog: here, a very sophisticated pair. We
dialog: must protect them, treat them with
dialog: respect. Nurture them.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: People will pay big money for
dialog: this. Right, Grace?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Charles, I want to know why you
dialog: didn't tell me about this --
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (now changing her
dialog: tune)
dialog: We were waiting for proof.
dialog: Lydia's photographs...
text: Charles is scheming.
speaker_heading: BERNARD
dialog: (skeptical)
dialog: What are you all talking about?
dialog: We... we just got a little drunk,
dialog: that's all.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: No matter how drunk you get, you
dialog: cannot sound like the Ink Spots.
dialog: (to Charles)
dialog: Charles, this is it! You can get
dialog: Maxie Dean up here now.
text: Charles plots and plans.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: His wife Sarah loves the
dialog: supernatural. I did a reading for
dialog: her just last week. Told her her
dialog: jowls would tighten soon. I mean
dialog: she will make him sprint up here in
dialog: his helicopter if you can produce
text: ghosts for her.
speaker_heading: BERYL
dialog: The "Enquirer" has offered fifty
dialog: thousand dollars for absolute
dialog: proof of life after death. I'll
dialog: send them over.
speaker_heading: BERNARD
dialog: I'm Delia's agent! I've lost
dialog: money for years on her work. If
dialog: anything actually happened here,
dialog: I'll handle it, thank you. But
dialog: not until I see some real proof.
text: Lydia appears at the base of the stairs. Everyone
text: stops squabbling, looks at her expectantly.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: They don't want to come down.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Why not?
text: Bernard shakes his head as if all this were an elaborate
dialog: hoax. He harumphs!
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I think the reason is they were
dialog: trying to scare you, and you
dialog: didn't get scared --
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Of course we weren't scared.
dialog: (looking around)
text: Just a little startled. One of
dialog: those shrimp dropped down my
dialog: Kamali.
dialog: Bernard is now convinced this whole business was a put-
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: BERNARD
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: Total collective hallucination.
speaker_heading: BERYL
dialog: I was a little tipsie.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: This was not a hallucination,
dialog: people. This was real, really
dialog: totally real.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Of course, they were rather
dialog: spectacular effects -- for
dialog: Connecticut, I mean.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: All presences have a home space. A
dialog: place where they live, so to speak.
dialog: Where do they hide out?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (reluctantly)
text: The attic.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
text: The attic room is locked --
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: They're ghosts. They do what they
dialog: want.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Fabulous! Otho Fenlock's "Locked
dialog: Door" ghosts! Probably committed
dialog: suicide up there -- hanging like
text: beeves from the rafters. I'm
text: totally enchanted.
text: Bernard gathers Grace and Beryl and walks out the door.
speaker_heading: BERNARD
dialog: Delia, you are a flake. You have
dialog: always been a flake. I'm packing
dialog: up and going back to the tricks of
dialog: the city. That I can manage. If
dialog: you must frighten people, do it
dialog: with your sculpture.
text: They exit. Delia is horrified and embarrassed.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Wait! I'm going to get to the
dialog: bottom of this! Lydia, is this
dialog: some high-tech trick of yours? I
dialog: want you to take us up there tout
dialog: sweet!
scene_heading: INT. LANDING OUTSIDE OF ATTIC
text: Delia, Charles, Otho and Lydia -- creep, creep.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Shhh. They're in there? God,
dialog: they live like animals. This is
dialog: where they've been hiding out?
text: Lydia nods. Delia suddenly, brashly pounds on the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: All right, you dead people! Come
dialog: on out, or we'll break down this
dialog: door and drag you out on the ropes
dialog: you hanged yourself with!
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Shhhh. They didn't commit
dialog: suicide.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: It doesn't matter.
dialog: What matters is I've got a roomful
dialog: of guests down there, who think
dialog: I'm a fraud.
dialog: (to Lydia)
dialog: I am going to teach you something
dialog: here Lydia. You've got to take
dialog: the right tone in things like
dialog: this, or people -- whether they're
dialog: dead or alive -- people will walk
dialog: all over you.
dialog: (loud)
dialog: Come on out, or I will make death
dialog: so miserable that you will wish
dialog: you had never lived!
text: Delia pounds on door, which opens with an eerie CREAK.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Lydia is pushed in first. She looks around. Delia,
text: Charles and Otho come in next, carefully. One by one
text: they straighten up and look around.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (whisper)
dialog: So where are they, Lydia?
text: Lydia shrugs, looks around.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (off-handedly)
dialog: Answer your mother.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Listen, you guys. These ghosts
dialog: are really nice people. I think
dialog: we scared them off. Let's just
dialog: leave them alone. Okay?
text: Charles is suddenly transfixed. He stares at the
dialog: model.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: It's the whole damn town.
text: They gather around. Lydia is a little sad as she looks
text: at the empty room and the model.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Look at that detail!
speaker_heading: DELIA
text: Look at the tiny figures.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Look at all that parking!
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Come on. Leave their stuff alone.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: They're not here, Lydia?
text: She shakes her head. Otho spots the handbook. Palms
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: I have never been so
dialog: embarrassed... They haven't gone
dialog: for good, have they?
text: Delia is suddenly out the door, urging them all outside.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Everyone out of there. If they're
dialog: in there somewhere, I don't want
dialog: to scare them away. Come on now,
dialog: stay out of there. We've got work
dialog: to do.
text: Otho pockets the handbook secretly as everyone exits.
text: Delia carefully closes the door.
text: CAMERA EASES OVER TO THE WINDOW
text: We see two pairs of hands, white-knuckled, gripping the
text: window sill from the outside.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Barbara and Adam are hanging outside the window.
text: CAMERA EASES BACK to see that instead of hanging from
dialog: the house --
text: They are hanging from a ledge over The Inferno --
speaker_heading: ON INFERNO
text: circles of rosy hell. Several devilish Monsters slaver
text: up at them, hoping for new meat for the furnace. Small
text: geysers spurt foul gasses.
speaker_heading: WINDS
text: BLOW hard on Adam and Barbara. They struggle to hold
text: on and pull themselves back up and into the window.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Juno, help! Juno!
text: After nearly falling, Adam barely saves Barbara and
text: they finally make it up, and disappear into the window.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC LANDING - NIGHT
text: Delia, Charles and Otho all start down the stairs, one
text: by one. All are holding the handrail.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Lydia, I will never forgive you
dialog: for embarrassing me in front of my
dialog: social inferiors. You help us
dialog: with these ghosts or you'll be
dialog: sorry.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I'm sorry already.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (fixing on Otho)
dialog: Now, let's get back to business. I
dialog: I want to get Maxie Dean and Sarah
dialog: up here immediately. I can make
dialog: history here! I'm going to turn
dialog: this sleepy little backward town
dialog: into a leading supernatural
dialog: research center... and amusement
dialog: park.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (disgusted)
dialog: I cannot believe this.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Delia will cook...
text: Delia glares at him.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I'll bring the wine... and the
dialog: business plan. And Lydia --
dialog: you'll bring the ghosts.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: I can't bring the ghosts. They're
dialog: not here!
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: ... Otho, could you actually... do
dialog: something with them?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (pats the handbook
dialog: under his coat)
dialog: Perhaps... if I were properly
dialog: motivated...
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: That's slavery and murder. You
dialog: don't know them. They're nice
dialog: people!
text: POV -- down the handrail, as they walk downstairs.
text: Lydia lags behind, sullen.
scene_heading: LOWER END OF THE HANDRAIL
text: lifts, and turns. The handrail has become a long, fat,
dialog: diamond-backed snake -- unlike any we have ever seen.
text: It flashes terrifying steel teeth and a red-feathered
text: comb. It turns and HISSES at them.
speaker_heading: ON DELIA
text: She screams as she looks down at her hand on the rail
text: -- it grips the scaly, throbbing, dripping body of the
dialog: snake.
speaker_heading: THE SNAKE
text: just gets longer and nastier as it turns back in the
text: air, up the stairs toward them. Its tail circles Delia
text: and spins her like a top. When she stops -- the snake
text: gives her a big wet snake kiss.
speaker_heading: SNAKE
text: snaps Otho in the behind. It hurts.
speaker_heading: THE SNAKE
text: rears up and spreads a red-comb and HISSES loudly.
speaker_heading: ALL THREE
text: of them fall over each other trying to escape.
speaker_heading: THE SNAKE
text: hovers horribly over them. Grabs Charles in its coils
text: and squeezes him hard -- his fearful face reddens, then
text: it suspends Charles over the edge of the stairs.
speaker_heading: SNAKE
dialog: We've come for your daughter,
dialog: Chuck!
speaker_heading: HE
text: leers at Lydia and drops Charles like a rock over the
text: bannister. Charles screams.
speaker_heading: THE SNAKE
text: Grins at a terrified Lydia.
speaker_heading: SNAKE
text: rears back for a strike, when suddenly, like thunder.
text: One word is heard.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Betelgeuse! Betelgeuse!
dialog: Betelgeuse!
speaker_heading: THE SNAKE
text: looks up with familiar eyes. At top of stairs stands
text: an angry Barbara.
text: What happens next is almost too fast for the eye to
dialog: see.
speaker_heading: THE SNAKE
text: shrinks and turns back into the regular mahogany hand-
dialog: rail.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
text: or his outline, whips up the stairs, through the door,
text: and is gone like a rocket.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: RRRatt shit!
speaker_heading: OTHO AND DELIA
text: rush downstairs -- Lydia is terrified. She runs away.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I hate you! I thought you were my
dialog: friends.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No, wait!
text: Lydia screams and runs down the stairs.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (screams)
dialog: I hate all of you!
text: Slowly, Barbara returns to the attic.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Adam and Barbara are exhausted. Agitated.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Great choice we've got here. We
dialog: get to spend the next century
dialog: either hanging out that window or
dialog: doing parlor tricks.
text: Adam is working with the model town. Barbara is pac-
dialog: ing.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Maybe they'll leave now. That
dialog: snake was a pretty nasty customer.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: He might have hurt somebody.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: But he didn't. We've got him
dialog: where we want him.
speaker_heading: ON THE MODEL
text: A column of water shoots high in the air.
text: Adam rushes over to the model -- looks down.
scene_heading: INT. MODEL - DAY
text: Betelgeuse has run a beat-up old pickup into a fire
text: hydrant. He stands nearby, hopping mad; shakes his
text: fist at Adam.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: You pansy-assed cretins! How dare
dialog: you do that to me. I coulda
dialog: finished the job!
speaker_heading: IN THE ATTIC
text: Barbara and Adam, obviously disturbed, look at one
text: another with concern.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE (V.O.)
dialog: (thin and pip-
dialog: ing voice)
dialog: Why did you stop me?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I don't like Charles Deetz
dialog: particularly, but you could have
dialog: killed him.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Hey, I've been bottled up for six
dialog: hundred years. Every dog has his
dialog: day. This is my town. I need a
text: night to howl.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: This is my town.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: You wish! I nearly scored with
dialog: that little blonde. I need me a
dialog: short little queen.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Angry, Barbara reaches down into the model and plucks
dialog: Betelgeuse up.
text: Barbara lifts him up toward her, squeezing him
dialog: slightly.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: You leave her alone, you horrid
dialog: little prick!
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - BETELGEUSE IN BARBARA'S HAND
text: Betelgeuse grins. Suddenly large spikes shoot out all
text: over his body, piercing the skin of Barbara's palm and
text: fingers. Barbara's blood is a rich pink.
text: She squeals and releases the evil spirit and he plum-
dialog: mets.
scene_heading: EXT. MODEL - DAY
text: Betelgeuse lands on the town common. Betelgeuse is
text: defiant.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Go ahead. Make my millenium!
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: We hear the tinny strains of "Honky Tonk Angel" as if
text: from down the street. He turns around to follow it.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: This burg got a cathouse? I'm
dialog: getting anxious if you know what I
dialog: mean. Six hundred years and all.
text: He turns the corner to a whorehouse, with women --
text: women with demon horns -- hanging out of the window,
text: beckoning. Betelgeuse rubs his hands together and
text: swaggers inside.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Barbara aghast, watching this from above.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Adam! Why did you build a whore
dialog: house? Have you ever been to...?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I didn't --
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: He doesn't finish -- a strong WIND blows through the
text: attic, nearly knocking Barbara and Adam over. They
text: close their eyes against the gale.
text: When they open their eyes again, they're no longer in
dialog: the attic. They're in --
scene_heading: INT. JUNO'S OUTER OFFICE - DAY
text: A cubicle in a much larger office. Miss Argentina
text: swishes by.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: God, you have got her steaming
dialog: now.
text: She exits. There are other special workers. The place
text: is really, really busy. Adam and Barbara sit down to
text: wait. Juno storms through with a sheaf of papers. She
text: sees them. She is steaming mad.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: The whorehouse was my idea. I
dialog: want Betelgeuse out of the
dialog: picture! We've got some serious
dialog: talking to do.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: You people have really screwed
dialog: up! I received word that you
dialog: allowed yourselves to be
dialog: photographed. And you let
dialog: Betelgeuse out and didn't put him
dialog: back, and you let Otho get ahold
dialog: of the handbook.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Handbook? When...?
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (continuing tirade)
dialog: Never trust the living! We cannot
dialog: have a routine haunting like yours
dialog: provide incontrovertible visual
dialog: proof of existence beyond death.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Well, we didn't know --
text: A BUNCH OF FOOTBALL PLAYERS
text: follow Juno like hungry dogs.
speaker_heading: DUMB #1
dialog: Hey, Coach, where's the men's
dialog: room?
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: I'm not your coach. He survived.
speaker_heading: DUMB #2
dialog: You don't need a men's room.
dialog: You're not no man no more. But
dialog: Coach, let me get this -- What's
dialog: our curfew over here?
text: They start squabbling. Juno has to wrangle them into
dialog: another room.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: I'll be right back.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Charles sits at the table with a small bandage on his
text: head. Delia takes off her Gucci belt and whips it on a
text: chair absent-mindedly.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: I feel like we've been at war,
dialog: Charles.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: At least insofar as we have our
dialog: first casualty. Me.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Otho'll know what to do.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: What's he going to do? Viciously
dialog: rearrange their environment?
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Otho knows just as much about the
dialog: supernatural as he knows about
dialog: interior design.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Let's hope he knows how to produce
dialog: those damn ghosts for Max and
dialog: Sarah... Because I've bought
dialog: options on property all over town.
dialog: I need Max's financing...
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Just don't tell Lydia.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: I think she's in with them.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. LYDIA'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: It's dark. The bedroom curtains have been closed.
text: DRAMATIC OPERA MUSIC builds throughout.
text: Lydia melodramatically dressed in a long black dress
text: appears carrying a candle. She is softly crying.
text: She sits at her dressing table, the candlelight shows
text: her writing paper. She begins a very dramatic letter.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I am alone.
text: She looks at it and crumpling the paper, starts again.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I am utterly... alone. You have
dialog: sealed my fate with your betrayal.
dialog: I can no longer stand to be used
text: like a puppet between two
dialog: deceitful worlds. By the time you
dialog: read this, I will be gone, having
dialog: jumped off...
text: She scratches that out.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
text: ... having plummeted off the
dialog: Winter River Bridge. Then you
dialog: will know that I am no longer a
dialog: toy in your petty feuds. Goodbye,
dialog: Lydia.
text: A tear falls on the paper as she folds it and puts it
text: in an envelope. OPERA MUSIC BUILDS AND CONTINUES.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLES' OFFICE - DAY
text: Lydia slowly makes a copy of the suicide note. The
text: green of the Xerox light falls eerily on her sad face.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - DAY
text: Lydia at bottom of attic stairs.
scene_heading: LYDIA'S POV - STAIRS AND DOOR AT TOP
text: They look ominous. She starts upward.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC ROOM - DAY
text: The door opens and Lydia peers in.
text: The room is empty. Lydia comes inside.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Are you here?
text: She hears SOMETHING. Looks all around the room.
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Mr. and Mrs. Maitland? I've come
dialog: for the last time?
dialog: (laying note on
dialog: table)
dialog: Where are you? Barb...
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE (V.O.)
dialog: They're dead.
text: Lydia looks around, then peers into model.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Think small. I'm talking to you.
scene_heading: EXT. MODEL TOWN - BUILDING ROOF - DAY
text: A tiny Betelgeuse on the roof of a building, wearing a
text: silk dressing gown, looking like he just dragged him-
text: self out of bed. One of the horned whores is nude,
text: sunbathing in the corner, and Betelgeuse drapes a
text: blanket over her. Lydia's face looms enormous in the
dialog: sky.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Cookie, they are dead, dead,
dialog: deadski.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Of course they're dead. They're
dialog: ghosts.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: No, I mean they've gone.
text: Decamped. Split. Vanished.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Where'd they go?
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: The happy hunting ground. Who
dialog: cares?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Are you a spirit too?
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Sort of. High spirit. Heh heh.
dialog: Listen, cookie, I've been trapped
dialog: in this burg for hundreds of
dialog: years. All I want is to get out.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I want to get in.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: You do? Over here? On my side?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I think so.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (scheming quickly)
dialog: Well, yes, of course. It's great
dialog: over here. You'll meet all the
dialog: greats. James Dean. Sid
dialog: Vicious...
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Well, it can't be any worse than
dialog: my life here.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (sinister, encouraging
dialog: her)
dialog: That's right. They treat you like
dialog: scum, I bet?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: I can't help you from this side,
dialog: but here's how we do it. So
dialog: simple. Say my name three
dialog: times. That's all. I'll be all
dialog: yours. Then I'll bring you over
dialog: here in style.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I... I don't know what your name is.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Minor problem. The rules. I
dialog: can't tell it to you. But.. do
dialog: you know how to play charades?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Of course you do.
text: He holds up two fingers in a V.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
text: Two words.
text: Betelgeuse holds up one finger.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: First word.
text: Betelgeuse puts two fingers on his arm.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
text: Three syllables.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: No, dummy. Two.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Your fingers are so small I can't
dialog: see them. First word -- two
dialog: syllables.
text: He points behind her.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I don't know what that signal
dialog: means.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: It means look behind you, bimbo.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Lydia looks behind her. A greet beetle the size of a
text: Volkswagen is crouching. Its feathery antennae reach
text: out toward her menacingly. Lydia yelps.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Beetle!
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Good girrrl!
text: POP! The beetle disappears. Betelgeuse holds up two
dialog: fingers.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (still shaken)
dialog: Second word. Be careful.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Apprehensive, she jumps when a simple carton of orange
text: juice materializes. Orange juice pours out into a
text: ghostly glass.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Breakfast? Orange?
text: The orange juice disappears. He shakes his head.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Breakfast beetle? Beetle? Beetle
dialog: fruit? Fruit bat? Fruit Battle?
dialog: Volkswagen? Fruit wagon?
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Good thing you are a beautiful
dialog: kid. You are dumb!
text: Betelgeuse does the signal for "Now Put Them Together."
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I am not! Beetle... Juice?
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (jumping with delight)
dialog: That's it!
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Your name is Beetle Juice? Yecch!
dialog: That's as bad as Deeelia Deeetz.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: It's spelled different, but
dialog: basically... Now you said it
dialog: twice, just one more time. And
dialog: I'll be free.
dialog: (sinister)
dialog: And then you'll be free.
text: Lydia, puzzled, gets the magnifying glass and peers at
dialog: him.
text: ON HIS UGLY FACE BIG IN THE GLASS
text: Betelgeuse jumps in the air, his robe parts -- we don't
text: see anything, but maybe Lydia does.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: God, you're anatomically correct!
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Just say it.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (recognizing something
dialog: about him)
dialog: You were the snake! Right? I
dialog: know. It was you.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: You've got to say it!
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: No I don't. I don't take orders
dialog: from Smurfs.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: How'd you like to be married to...
dialog: the King...?
text: Lydia doesn't get it.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: ... Elvis?...
dialog: (boasting)
dialog: You know, ever since he came over
dialog: he and I have been just like this.
dialog: (crosses his fingers)
dialog: I can arrange it. Just say my
dialog: name one more time.
text: She thinks about that one. Shakes her head.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: No, No... I need to talk to
dialog: Barbara.
text: Betelgeuse smiles.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Well, cookie, just say my name. I
dialog: can get her.
dialog: (rubbing his horny little
dialog: hands together)
dialog: That and so much more...
text: Lydia walks around thinking for a moment.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Who else did you say is over
dialog: there?
scene_heading: INT. JUNO'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Juno staring at them, hard.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: Yes... or no? Do you want the
dialog: Deetzes out or in?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Out.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: What about Betelgeuse?
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: Forget him. He'll remain with his
text: whores until someone calls him.
dialog: You need to worry about people like
dialog: Otho. There are a lot of
dialog: phony trance mediums. They
dialog: usually can't make the formulas
text: work, but if Otho stumbles on the
dialog: right words in that handbook... he
dialog: could hurt you. As in --
dialog: exorcism.
text: They both look puzzled.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: In plain English -- that's death
dialog: for the dead. I don't care what
dialog: it takes, just get them out of
dialog: there now. It's not pretty, but
dialog: -- that's death!
text: Adam stands to go.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Wait a minute. Let's see what
dialog: you're going to do...
text: They look at Juno.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: ... to scare her. I want to make
dialog: sure it's not some silly parlor
dialog: trick.
text: Barbara looks at Adam.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: I'll do the hard part, hon.
speaker_heading: ADAM
text: reluctantly pulls on his face, and contorts it into a
text: living, breathing, horror. Juno is even a little
dialog: repulsed.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: Not bad. Not bad. Now you? Go
dialog: ahead.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: She reluctantly does with her face a minor version of
text: Adam's horror.
speaker_heading: JUNO
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Okay. You look great! Now go
dialog: clean house. And don't forget the
dialog: photographs and the damned
dialog: handbook.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Barbara and Adam slowly stand and walk out the door.
text: Barbara/Monster looks back pleadingly. Football
text: players flood into Juno's office. One PARTICULARLY
text: DUMB PLAYER has a revelation. (He's pretty grisly,
dialog: maybe sat too close to the engine.)
scene_heading: PARTICULARLY DUMB PLAYER
dialog: Coach! Coach, I don't think we
dialog: survived the crash!
text: Barbara and Adam look at each other and continue out the
dialog: door.
scene_heading: OUTSIDE JUNO'S OFFICE
text: They enter a long dark hallway. They suddenly find
text: themselves standing in front of Lydia's room. Adam/
text: Monster looks at Barbara/Monster as he grabs the door-
text: knob. She stops him. Tears fall down her sad ghostly
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Adam. I can't do it. I like that
dialog: little girl.
speaker_heading: ADAM/MONSTER
dialog: It's too late. Sometimes things
dialog: just work out this way. We have
dialog: to, honey.
speaker_heading: BARBARA/MONSTER
dialog: No we don't. We can rebel or
dialog: something. We'll just stay up
dialog: there in our room. I'll read, you
dialog: can build on the model. Come on.
text: She rushes up the stairs, toward the attic. He follows
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: ADAM/MONSTER
dialog: Wait. We can't, honey. Our
dialog: house...
text: She gets to the door. Grabs the handle.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I want to be with Lydia!
text: She throws open the door.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - DAY
text: Lydia is standing over the model, about to say
dialog: Betelgeuse's name.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Okay. Beetle... J...
text: Barbara/Monster, horrified, screams!
speaker_heading: BARBARA/MONSTER
dialog: ! Lydia, stop!
text: Adam/Monster runs to grab her. Lydia is terrified.
text: Screams.
speaker_heading: ADAM/MONSTER
dialog: No, don't say it!
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Say it! Rat shit!
text: Betelgeuse slips off the roof into a patch of thorny
dialog: bushes.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Lydia screams, Adam/Monster tries to calm her. Lydia
text: struggles and, thinking she is being attacked, runs out
text: the door. Smack into Barbara/Monster.
text: Barbara catches her, frightens Lydia even more.
text: Barbara holds onto her as she struggles. Barbara/
text: Monster slowly changes back into regular Barbara.
text: Lydia sees who it is and she hugs her. Like mother and
dialog: daughter.
text: ON ADAM - slowly returning to himself. He smiles
text: slightly at the scene.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE (O.S.)
dialog: You lily-livered bleeding hearts!
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: I'm so sorry we frightened you.
dialog: What were you doing?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: He... Beetle Jui...
text: Barbara quickly puts her hand over her mouth.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: He said if I let him out he would
dialog: take me over to the other side to
dialog: find you.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No, Lydia, we're dead.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I want to be dead, too.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: No you don't! No... Lydia... Why?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (after a pause,
dialog: dramatically
dialog: but for real)
dialog: Life is just... unliveable...
text: Barbara hugs her. She fumbles for words. This is an
text: unusual situation, a dead person talking a live person
text: out of killing herself. She rocks Lydia a little.
text: Barbara looks at Adam.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Lydia, believe me... we know...
dialog: all the hard stuff is the same
dialog: over here. You're going to be who
dialog: you are... whether you're alive or
dialog: dead... and over here -- it's...
dialog: It's flat... there's no food, no
dialog: colors... you can't smell the
dialog: flowers.
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: If we knew then what we know
dialog: now... we'd have been more
dialog: careful...
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (in the style of the
dialog: dead receptionist)
dialog: ... we wouldn't have had our
dialog: little accident.
text: Lydia looks at Barbara lovingly.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: So never let Beetlejuice out --
dialog: never. Besides...
dialog: (looking at Adam)
dialog: We're thinking about letting
dialog: everyone stay... you and your
dialog: father and mother can stay too.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (smiles and says
dialog: slowly)
dialog: Step... mother.
speaker_heading: ADAM/MONSTER
text: is not sure, huffs around a little. He is trying to
text: change back into Adam, except for his nose, which
text: remains like a beak for a minute. Finally, it changes
dialog: too.
text: Lydia and Barbara laugh at him.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Without noticing Lydia, Otho and Charles push in
text: through the door and grab the model. They take it out
text: the door.
text: Adam is beside himself. Doesn't know what to do.
text: Barbara stops him from taking action.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: What is going on?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Really. I don't know.
text: Adam looks suspiciously at her.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I really don't. I'll go find out.
text: She runs out the door.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Be careful.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Lydia runs through the hallway and into the dining
dialog: room.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Lydia walks into a presentation in progress. Sitting
text: around the table are Otho, Maxie, and Delia. Sarah Dean
text: is there, too. She looks around Lydia hoping for
text: ghosts. Sarah is heavily made up, smells bad.
text: Lydia's photos of the sheeted ghosts are blown up and
text: standing on a nearby easel. Charles, over the model
text: with a pointer, is lost in mid-sentence.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: -- In short, I've got options to
dialog: buy enough of Main Street to
dialog: control the city council for a
dialog: hundred years. And at the prices
dialog: I'm talking about, if it all fell
dialog: apart tomorrow, we just move out and
dialog: sell to the Arabs and we still come
dialog: out... I've talked to Ed Cornwall
dialog: about a wax museum, here... in
dialog: Thanksgiving Park... Ed's the man
dialog: who made the talking Jesse Jackson
dialog: statue.
dialog: And I've got a museum dedicated to
dialog: 50 Great Moments in the Paranormal
dialog: -- and parenthetically, D-Con wants
dialog: to the right to start an insect zoo
text: here in the old hardware store.
dialog: (seeing Lydia)
dialog: Lydia, did you finally decide to
dialog: join us?
text: They all give her an oily smile.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Honey, I am just finishing the first
dialog: phase presentation about our little
dialog: project here. Then we'll take a
dialog: stretch and invite our friends... to meet
dialog: your friends.
text: Sarah gets Maxie's attention and unable to contain her
text: excitement, silently urges him to get on with the
dialog: ghosts.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Are they here yet?
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: Yes, Charles, let's cut the
dialog: bullcorn. We're here to see
dialog: ghosts. This whole ghost town
dialog: museum and such like follows a
dialog: train, if you've got the engine...
dialog: so let's see your goddamned engine.
text: Everyone looks at Lydia.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: They're... not here anymore.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (smiling apologetically)
dialog: Nonsense, every time she says
text: that, the paint peels, and some
dialog: wild creature tries to kill us.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (motioning)
dialog: We've got these pictures, Lydia.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: No, really... they said they might
dialog: come back and all of us could live
dialog: in peace if you agreed not to
dialog: tease them or make them do silly
dialog: tricks.
text: Sarah is disappointed. She goes to Maxie. Delia takes
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: She's become a little emotional
dialog: about all this. No counseling up
dialog: here. But we aren't relying on
dialog: her. No, we rely on
dialog: professionals. We have... Otho.
text: The whole room turns to Otho. Who is scribbling some-
text: thing and mumbling.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Are they still here, Otho?
text: Otho looks up; he missed the question.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Are they still here, Otho?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Oh, they're still here. They're
text: just not showing up.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: They're probably guilty about what
dialog: they did to me.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: Not these people! They are
dialog: ruthless!
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: I don't care from guilt. I just
dialog: want to see them.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Otho, can you do it?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: It's tricky, but I think I can
dialog: handle it.
text: He dramatically produces the handbook.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: No!
text: Lydia begins to think about this scene and she shifts
dialog: to another point of view.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Wait a minute! What am I worried
dialog: about? Otho, you can't even
dialog: change a tire!
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (taking the challenge)
dialog: I'll need something personal of
dialog: theirs.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: You'll have to go to the Goodwill.
text: Delia gets an idea.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT
text: The moon stares down icily through gray clouds. Wind
dialog: up.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Barbara is looking out the window.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (wistful)
dialog: You know, I've been thinking. I
dialog: could teach Lydia to sew.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Little black party dresses?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (punching him playfully)
dialog: Ah, Adam, you don't know anything
dialog: about little girls. She's just...
dialog: missed out on some love, that's
dialog: all...
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (huffy)
dialog: Let's see if she can get my model
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: You can build another one... with
dialog: her.
text: Adam isn't convinced. Barbara motions him to sit next
dialog: to her.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Come here, I want to talk to you.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Delia carefully brings out a big plastic bag. Lays
text: something out on the dining room table.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: I'm deeply sentimental about...
dialog: weddings.
text: Lydia stands to see: Delia carefully lays out
text: Barbara's white wedding dress. Then next to it, Adam's
dialog: wedding tux.
text: Lydia looks at it. A chill runs through her.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (hushed realization)
dialog: Their wedding clothes.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (dramatically)
dialog: Their wedding clothes.
text: Otho then holds up the handbook.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: The "words".
text: Otho nods.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Lydia is nervous now. Otho lights a candle and Delia
text: turns out the lights.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: Hands vermillion / start of five
dialog: bright cotillion / raven's dive
dialog: nightshades promise / spirit's strive,
dialog: to the living / let now the dead...
dialog: come alive.
text: Nothing happens. Lydia nervously turns away.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: Doo wah.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Then a SIZZLE, a TINY CRACKLE, along one side of the
dialog: square.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Barbara with her arm on his shoulder, talks to Adam.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: We've been given a gift here,
dialog: honey. A real live little girl.
dialog: She likes us a lot. She needs
dialog: us. Maybe that's why we died so
dialog: young, to keep us from getting
dialog: so... attached to things. The
dialog: house, antiques, your model. Look
dialog: at us. We didn't have room for
dialog: anyone.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (after a long thought)
dialog: What makes you think she likes me?
text: Barbara slowly smiles. He does too.
text: He turns to Barbara. CAMERA HINGES WITH him to see --
speaker_heading: ON BARBARA
text: Her face is frightened. She cannot speak. She reaches
text: out to him -- but is disappearing. He reaches for her
text: but she is suddenly -- GONE.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Varicolored lightning bolts shoot from every corner of
text: the square. A gasp from everyone but Lydia.
text: ON LYDIA -- she is looking away. She turns to see:
speaker_heading: ON THE DRESS
text: Barbara's wedding dress floats over the table and fills
text: slowly, painfully, with the arms, legs and finally the
text: frightened face of Barbara. A lightning bolt flares.
text: Lydia rises slowly to her feet, unable to resist.
text: More lightning bolts.
speaker_heading: OTHO
text: As sudden thunder / Pierces the night;
dialog: As magic wonder / Mad affright
text: Rives asunder / Man's delight:
dialog: Our ghost, our corpse and we
dialog: Rise to be.
text: Lydia walks slowly toward Barbara.
speaker_heading: ON BARBARA
text: She is in pain, she is very slowly aging. She speaks,
dialog: but no words can be heard. Not even by Lydia. But we
text: can see she is calling for... Adam.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Stop it!
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: Shhhh!
text: Lydia screams for Adam.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Adam. Adam.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: (louder)
dialog: As flies the lizard / Serpent fell;
dialog: As goblin vizard, / At the spell
dialog: Of pale wizard, / Sinks to hell;
text: The buried, dead, and slain...
dialog: Rise again.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: In a lightning flare we see: Adam searching for
text: Barbara. He rushes out into the hallway.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Barbara! Barbara? Ba...
text: His last plaintive call becomes mute as he too begins
text: slowly to disappear.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: On each of the watchers one by one, scared but
text: delighted too. No one is watching Lydia.
text: ON LYDIA -- tears well up in her eyes.
speaker_heading: ON BARBARA
text: She is slowly aging. Now a bewildered Adam appears,
text: floating in his wedding suit. Seeing his Barbara, now
text: older than he is, Adam reaches for her hand...
text: ON HANDS -- as he grasps her hand, it seems to be made
text: of white crepe; it wrinkles and nearly collapses.
text: Adam... puzzled, calls her name silently.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: What's happening to them?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Are they suffering?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (screams)
dialog: They're dying.
speaker_heading: MAXIE
dialog: They're already dead. They can't
dialog: feel a thing.
dialog: Obviously not true.
text: ON BARBARA -- she looks down slowly at Lydia and with
text: effort makes a loving smile. She reaches out toward
dialog: Lydia.
text: Completely helpless now, Lydia weeps openly and then
text: something comes over her. She rushes across the room.
text: Stares down at the model.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Where are you? Help us! Please.
dialog: Betelgeuse!
text: A CRACK OF LIGHTNING.
scene_heading: EXT. MODEL TOWN GRAVEYARD - NIGHT
text: Someone, or something, like the figure of death in the
text: Goya drawing, is perched atop the gravestone of Barbara
text: and Adam Maitland. The graves beneath him are open.
text: The figure turns... it is Betelgeuse. He is filing his
text: talons casually.
text: He speaks with a ghastly rasp.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: So... You're ready for me now?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: You've got to help them.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Can you help me?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (frightened)
dialog: ... I will.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Then I'll help them. For a price.
text: He grins.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: W... What is it?
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (his words echo
dialog: horribly
dialog: Be... my... queen!
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (repulsed)
dialog: Your qu...? But you're...
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (smiling devilishly)
dialog: I'm beeyoo-teeful.
speaker_heading: ON LYDIA
text: She is chilled. Steps back.
text: She turns back to the Maitlands who are continuing to
text: age. Looks back to the model.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: ... All right... Betelgeuse...
scene_heading: ON BETELGEUSE
text: He doubles in size. The tombstone crumbles beneath
dialog: him...
speaker_heading: LYDIA (V.O.)
dialog: (louder)
dialog: Betelgeuse...
scene_heading: WIDER ON GRAVEYARD
text: He doubles in size again.
speaker_heading: ON LYDIA
text: She hesitates.
scene_heading: ON BETELGEUSE - TIGHT
text: He looks up at her confidently.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Betelgeuse!
scene_heading: DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Barbara and Adam's corpses are nearly at the end of
dialog: their ropes.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: All right, that's enough. Can you
dialog: stop this now?
text: Otho doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Otho?
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: It's too late, Charles. I'm
dialog: sorry.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Lydia peers at the model. Betelgeuse is transforming.
text: There's a LOW RUMBLE. The model town starts to shake.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Lydia backs away. Betelgeuse's head, now human-size,
text: rises from the center of the model town.
scene_heading: TIGHT ON HIS FACE
text: His grin is malevolent and malicious. It's showtime,
dialog: folks!
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Attention, K-Mart shoppers!
speaker_heading: ON DEETZES
text: -- who have been focused on the Maitlands now turning
text: around to the model.
speaker_heading: ON MODEL
text: Betelgeuse begins a bright but sinister Carnival
text: Barker's pitch. His shoulders now are clearing the
dialog: model.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Welcome to Winter River!
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Sarah rushes over to the model, thinking this is more
text: of the show. Maxie follows.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Hel LO Piggies! Welcome to Winter
dialog: River! See the Museum of Natural
dialog: Greed. The Monument to Bored
dialog: Businessmen! Come closer!
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Suddenly Betelgeuse's arms elongate, swell and CRACKLE.
scene_heading: ON MAXIE AND SARAH
text: Their eyes grow wide.
scene_heading: TIGHT ON BETELGEUSE'S HANDS
text: They split, unfurl, and transmutate into two, shiny,
text: huge sledgehammers.
scene_heading: ON BETELGEUSE
text: He grins, his eyes sparkle in anticipation. CARNEY
scene_heading: MUSIC UP.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (roughly to the tune
dialog: of "Santa Claus is
dialog: Coming to Town")
dialog: You better not sell, you better
dialog: not buy...
scene_heading: ON MAXIE AND SARAH
text: Behind each of them, a graduated CARNIVAL BELL RINGING
text: GAME STANDARD erects itself.
scene_heading: ON BETELGEUSE
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (still singing)
dialog: Or old Uncle Beetle Claus will be
dialog: makin'... you... fly.
text: Betelgeuse swings his hammer/hands and sends Max and
text: Sarah zooming through the roof. GONG. GONG.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (in style of game
dialog: show host)
dialog: Yowser, yowser. Well, who do we
dialog: have here tonight?
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: He looks up at the suspended Maitlands.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Let's have a hand for the
text: Maitlands, Barbara and Adam. They
dialog: deserve a rest.
speaker_heading: ON MAITLANDS
text: Wispy shadows by now, but still alive/dead. They fall
text: in a heap on the floor. NOTE: They immediately start
dialog: to regenerate themselves.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Well, we'll get back to them after
text: they recover from their flight.
speaker_heading: ON ADAM
text: Filling out again, he struggles to stand, but falls.
text: Barbara shakes her head, trying to regain her focus.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: My God, what ugly wall dressing.
dialog: Who is responsible for all this
dialog: ugliness?
dialog: (spying Otho trying
dialog: to hide)
dialog: Otho, it's you! Watch out for the
dialog: taste patrol!
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: He waves and the door opens. A little Italian gentle-
text: man appears.
speaker_heading: OTHO
dialog: No. Noooo! My God. It's Giorgio
dialog: Armani!
speaker_heading: GIORGIO
dialog: Before youa getta started herea, I
dialog: joost wanta to saya, Otho,
dialog: don'ta weara my stuff? Okay?
dialog: Youa too fat for human-type
dialog: clothes. Ita makes my designs
dialog: looka like aircraft covering!
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Otho is horrified. Suddenly he looks down and sees his
text: clothing has transformed into a polyester nightmare.
text: He runs out the door screaming. Betelgeuese laughs
text: with delight then focuses on Lydia.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Let's leave this crazy world
dialog: behind us. I'll take you out in
dialog: style!
text: Sound of eerie WEDDING MARCH. The fireplace changes
text: into an expressionist altar.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: His leering horned whores walk like bridesmaids, in
text: step, through the door. They rush toward Lydia.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Frightened, Lydia is assaulted and pulled forward by
text: these ugly handmaidens; she suddenly looks down and
text: sees she is now clothed in a blood-red wedding dress.
dialog: Lydia screams!!
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No... No!
text: Adam's eyes widen.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (frightened, but
dialog: hurling the incan-
dialog: tation to make him
dialog: disappear)
dialog: No... Betelgeuse. Bet...
text: Betelgeuse waves a hand and Lydia's mouth freezes.
text: Delia and Charles plead with the recovering Maitlands.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: Please, can't you do something!
dialog: Please!
scene_heading: ON BARBARA AND ADAM
text: Adam, not fully recovered, heroically tries to speak --
text: but his jaw falls off. An exhausted Barbara tries to
text: help him reattach it.
text: Betelgeuse looks at Lydia.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: You know if we're going to get
dialog: married, we're going to need
dialog: witnesses!
text: Betelgeuse shifts his glare to Charles and Delia.
text: From Behind, Delia's horrid sculptures come to life
text: and attack Charles and Delia. The sculptures twist
text: around them, forcing them to watch the hideous
dialog: spectacle.
text: Adam and Barbara are rapidly trying to recover as the
text: ceremony begins.
scene_heading: A DEATH-MASKED OLD PREACHER
text: slides down the fireplace, ready to perform the
text: service, speaks with a hissing death rattle.
speaker_heading: PREACHER
dialog: Do you, Betel...
text: His mouth drops and is frozen.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Uh-uh! No one says the B word!
speaker_heading: PREACHER
dialog: Do you, _____________, take this
dialog: woman to be your wedded wife? To
dialog: honor...
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: You betcha!
text: Lydia screams and struggles.
speaker_heading: PREACHER
dialog: And... you? Do you, Lydia, take
dialog: this man?... er, uh... man... to
dialog: be your lawful wedded husband?...
dialog: In sickness...
text: Lydia struggles. Her screams are muffled and distant.
text: Betelgeuse grabs her and shakes her.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: You don't have to answer him,
dialog: snookums. I'll do it for you.
dialog: (eerily, speaking in
dialog: her voice)
dialog: I'm Lydia Deetz and I'm of sound
dialog: mind. The man next to me is the
dialog: one I want. You asked me... I'm
dialog: answering. Yes. How I love that
dialog: man of mine.
text: Adam, now fully regenerated, moves toward them. He
text: shouts the incantation.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Beetle...
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Betelgeuse turns to him and with a sweep of his hand,
text: Adam's teeth (as if they were false), fly out of his
text: mouth and CLATTER to the floor. Adam, toothless,
dialog: musters up his ghost powers and --
text: ON TEETH - TIGHT -- they rare back and continue
dialog: shouting...
speaker_heading: TEETH
dialog: Beetleju...
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Mayhem breaks out. A furious Betelgeuse stomps at them
text: with his feet. The teeth scuttle under the model.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (angrily, to old man)
dialog: Now move it, pops!
speaker_heading: ON ADAM
text: Speechless, Adam heroically charges toward Betelgeuse,
text: ready to strike him. Betelgeuse spins on him and waves
text: his hand. SOUND OF RUSHING WIND.
speaker_heading: ON ADAM
text: He has been zapped into his model town.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Barbara screams and jumps at Betelgeuse.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Beetlegeuse...
text: Betelgeuse turns on her, eyes flashing.
speaker_heading: ON BARBARA
text: A gag comes over her mouth.
speaker_heading: ON MODEL
text: Adam is running around the streets trying to get out of
text: the model. He looks up into the sky, sees a red glow
text: and THUNDERING WEDDING MUSIC. He doesn't know what to
dialog: do.
speaker_heading: ON BARBARA
text: She tears away her face (like tissue) and tries to say
dialog: his name again...
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Betelgeuse...
scene_heading: ON BETELGEUSE
text: More angry, he waves his hand.
speaker_heading: ON BARBARA
text: Her lips are zippered shut.
speaker_heading: IN MODEL
text: Desperate, Adam gets an idea. He runs over to the
text: truck Betelgeuse had crashed earlier, jumps in and
text: tries to start it.
speaker_heading: ON BARBARA
text: She unzips her mouth and tries again.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Be
scene_heading: ON BETELGEUSE
text: Fire darts from his eyes....
speaker_heading: ON BARBARA
text: A chromium steel plate is riveted across her mouth.
text: She screams wordlessly behind it.
speaker_heading: IN MODEL
text: Adam finally gets the truck started.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
text: Struggling with her mouth, frustrated to the breaking
text: point, she looks all around the room and rushes to the
text: window and CRASHES through into the night.
speaker_heading: IN MODEL
text: Adam sees Barbara rush out. He looks back at
text: Betelgeuse, floors the gas pedal and goes for one last
dialog: shot.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: (angry)
dialog: Now, let's get rolling!
speaker_heading: PREACHER
dialog: Then, by the authority vested in
dialog: me by...
text: A RUMBLE comes from outside. Everyone notices but the
text: Preacher. He stutters to finish the wedding.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: By me! Get on with it!
text: LOUDER NOISE from outside. Now nearly DEAFENING.
speaker_heading: PREACHER
dialog: Yes... by him. I now pronounce
dialog: you man and...
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: The truck is racing up to Betelgeuse's foot. Adam
text: bails out just in time as the truck hits Betelgeuse's
text: foot and EXPLODES, giving him a distracting hot foot,
dialog: then --
speaker_heading: ON WINDOW
text: Through it -- amidst a cloud of yellow dust -- CRASHES
text: the sand worm. Barbara rides him bareback. Barbara
text: struggles to control the ROARING worm. She pulls on
text: his ears and looks around for Beetle Juice. Seeing
text: him, she spurs the Worm after Beetle Juice.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Beetle Juice struggles, trying to run from the worm.
text: But Barbara and the worm outmaneuver him, corner him,
text: and when the worm reaches him, he opens his hungry
text: mouth and gulps Betelgeuse in one mouthful.
speaker_heading: BETELGEUSE
dialog: Rrrrat shit!
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Barbara leaps off, as the Sand Worm continues down
text: through the floorboards of the house
text: Betelgeuse is gone. Adam is back to full size.
text: Charles and Delia are no longer held by the sculptures.
text: Lydia runs back to her family and Adam and Barbara.
text: The dust settles.
scene_heading: ON HOLE - JUNO
text: peers into the room. She pulls the whores through the
dialog: hole.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET - WINTER RIVER - A BRIGHT DAY
text: BIRDS SING. Ernie polishes the lion. Old Bill sleeps.
text: People stroll.
scene_heading: EXT. MISS SHANNON'S BOARDING SCHOOL - DAY
text: A lovely white boarding school with long, green lawn.
text: A BELL RINGS. Girls come out the front door. Say
text: goodbyes. Lydia walks out too, carrying books.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: 'Bye, Serena. See you later.
text: Lydia walks along Main Street of Winter River.
scene_heading: EXT. JANE BUTTERFIELD'S ANTIQUES/TRAVEL/REAL ESTATE
text: Jane is getting out of her car -- Little Jane follows.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Hellooo! How's school?
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (not particularly
dialog: interested)
dialog: It's okay. How's the dirt
dialog: business?
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Well, I'm expecting a call from
dialog: your parents. I have some news
dialog: for them.
text: Jane hears PHONE RING from inside, rushes in to answer it.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Tell them I'll call them tonight.
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET - WINTER RIVER - A BRIGHT DAY
text: Ernie polishes the lion. Lydia passes.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Don't forget the balls, Ernie.
text: He looks around, surprised.
scene_heading: INT. JANE BUTTERFIELD'S ANTIQUES/TRAVEL/REAL ESTATE
text: Jane screams into the phone.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: What do you mean no? After all
dialog: I've done for you. I don't do
dialog: this for my health you know.
text: CAMERA EXPLORES a row of photographs of houses for
dialog: sale.
text: ON PHOTOGRAPH -- of the old Maitland house. It is
text: delapidated and haunted-looking. A legend reads:
dialog: Fixer-Upper's Special."
text: BACK TO JANE -- she is frustrated.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: I have here a bona fide offer of
dialog: $250,000.00 for that dump.
text: Little Jane is now at the Xerox machine. The NOISE
text: irritates Big Jane and she throws a wad of paper at
text: Little Jane. Little Jane gets mad and throws her
text: papers into the air and exits.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK APARTMENT - DAY
text: We recognize the furniture. It's the Deetzes'. Delia
text: is on the phone to Jane. Charles comes in with the
text: Wall Street Journal. He fidgets, taps his fingers, as
text: he reads and pours coffee -- all at once.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (whisper to Charles)
text: It's Mrs. Butterworth again.
text: Charles picks up the extension.
speaker_heading: CHARLES
dialog: Listen to me, Jane. We don't want
dialog: anyone looking at the house. We
dialog: don't want it painted, the yard
dialog: mowed, the trees trimmed, nor do
dialog: we want it termite inspected.
dialog: It's not for sale.
scene_heading: INT. JANE'S STORE - DAY
text: Jane listens. Silent. Thinking.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Well. Okay for now. When will
dialog: you sell it?
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK APARTMENT - DAY
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Never, honey. Never.
text: She hangs up. Looks at Charles.
speaker_heading: DELIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Some people never know when to
dialog: leave things the way they are.
text: Charles smiles.
scene_heading: INT. MAITLAND HOUSE - DAY
text: SOUND OF SWEEPING -- CAMERA eases up -- Barbara is
text: sweeping. Adam working on his model.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: What time is it?
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: 3:30 I guess.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Give or take a year.
text: Barbara smiles.
text: The KITCHEN DOOR SLAMS. Barbara looks up at Adam.
text: They smile.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: Did you get the paint?
speaker_heading: LYDIA'S VOICE
dialog: I got it. And I took pictures of
dialog: the new church for you, too.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: How'd you do on the science test?
speaker_heading: ON LYDIA
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (hangs her head)
dialog: It was gross. They wanted me to
dialog: dissect a frog. I told them no
dialog: way. I said it was against my
dialog: religion. I got a C.
text: Adam frowns a little.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: How did you do on the math test?
text: Lydia looks down coyly.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: We studied all day yesterday.
dialog: Don't tell me...
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: I got an A!
text: They grin with pride.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: So can I?
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: Uh-uh. Only if you got above a C
dialog: on science.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Oh, go on...
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Oh, Adam, don't tease her. You
dialog: never got an A in science in your
dialog: life!
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: All right.
text: ON LYDIA -- she puts down her books. Loosens her
text: collar, ruffles her hair and waits.
speaker_heading: ADAM
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Okay.
text: Lydia looks down. Lydia begins to levitate.
text: She lifts her head and leaves the white bread world
text: behind! In a voice as deep and soulful as Percy
dialog: Sledge:
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: "When a man loves a woman.
dialog: He can't keep his mind on nothin' else."
text: Behind her ghostly images of the football players
text: appear as back-up.
speaker_heading: FOOTBALLERS
dialog: Oooooo. Hummm oooooo.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: He'd change the world for the good
dialog: thing he's found. When a main
dialog: needs a woman, He cain't keep his
dialog: mind on nothin' else. If she's
dialog: bad, he won't see it, she can do
dialog: no wrong.
scene_heading: MUSIC CONTINUES OVER:
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: A great pile of sand with the whorehouse in the
text: middle. An irritated Betelgeuse crawls out on the
text: roof. Hating the singing he shakes his fist at the
text: sky -- loses his footing and tumbles into the sand.
text: Terrified, he scrambles to get out.
speaker_heading: ON PILE
text: A moving coil under the sand sends him scurrying inside
text: again. The Sandworm SNAPPING right behind him as he
text: runs back out on the roof.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: CAMERA TILTS UP to see house. It is the perfect, New
text: England house. CAMERA PULLS BACK from the model -- out
text: the window of the real house.
text: Outside the real house -- we see it is dilapidated, and
text: undeniably, the perfect haunted house.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
dialog: 
