scene_heading: BEFORE SUNRISE
dialog: by
dialog: Richard Linklater
dialog: Kim Krizan
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN - AFTERNOON 1
text: The Eurail rolls along. Inside, passengers sleep, read, and
text: stare out the windows. A few walk up and down the aisles.
text: CELINE, a young woman in her mid-twenties, is curled up in
text: her seat reading Georges Bataill’s Story of the Eye.
text: Strikingly attractive, she plays it down by wearing no
text: makeup, a loose-fitting vintage dress, and flat shoes. She
text: continues reading while taking an occasional bite of a
text: chocolate bar. Sitting four rows back and on the other side
text: of the aisle, JESSE, also mid-twenties, is engrossed in Klaus
text: Kinski’s memoir, All I Need Is Love. Casually good looking
text: but a little scruffy, he dresses in the jeans and T-shirt
text: mode. Suddenly a couple, two fortyish types who have been
text: arguing semiquietly in the seat behind Celine, start yelling
text: at each other in German. The WIFE takes a swipe at the
text: newspaper the HUSBAND has been screening him behind.
speaker_heading: WIFE
dialog: Will you put down that damn
dialog: newspaper and listen to me?
speaker_heading: HUSBAND
dialog: What’ve I been doing the last
dialog: thirty minutes? Would you shut up
dialog: for Chrissake?
speaker_heading: WIFE
dialog: You shut up! How dare you tell me
dialog: to shut up! It’s the same damn
dialog: thing all over again! I can’t
dialog: believe --
speaker_heading: HUSBAND
dialog: I said shut up! I’m putting down
dialog: my newspaper and telling you to
dialog: shut up.
text: Celine suddenly gets up, grabs her bag, and starts looking
text: for another seat. A few rows back, she finds a seat across
text: the aisle from Jesse. Before sitting down, they make brief
text: eye contact and kind of shake their heads and smile at the
text: tension. Just as she settles in and goes back to her book,
text: the wife gets up and storms down the aisle. Jesse and Celine
text: follow her with their eyes, and as she passes them, they find
text: they are looking right at each other. He makes a funny “uh-
dialog: oh” face.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Do you have any idea what they’re
dialog: arguing about? Do you speak
dialog: English?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes. But no, I don’t know. My
dialog: German is not that good.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Have you ever heard that as couples
dialog: get older they lose their ability
dialog: to hear each other?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Supposedly men lose their ability
text: to hear higher-pitched sounds and
dialog: women eventually lose hearing on
dialog: the low end. I guess they sort of
dialog: nullify each other or something.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Must be nature’s way of allowing
dialog: couples to grow old together and
dialog: not kill each other, I guess.
text: There’s a slightly awkward moment where they don’t know if
text: they should continue talking or not. She glances back down
text: at her book but he keeps looking at her.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you reading?
text: She holds up the book so he can see what it is.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: How about you?
text: He shows her what he’s reading. Neither has much to say
text: about the other’s reading material.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: There are so many weird people on
dialog: the train, no? Last week on my way
dialog: to Budapest I was sitting and
text: talking with four other people in
text: the lounge car and it turned out
dialog: that three of them had killed
dialog: people.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: No way.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Really. One was a war veteran, one
dialog: had murdered her boyfriend, and
text: another had caused a bad car wreck.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So you were the only one who hadn’‘t
dialog: killed anyone?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, I was one of them. Which one
dialog: do you think?
text: She laughs and he slowly joins her.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know what you mean. I’ve met
dialog: some weirdos. There was this
dialog: British guy sitting across from me
dialog: the other day who kept throwing his
text: body against the back of his chair,
dialog: yelling about how we should all
text: join together and stop the train.
dialog: He was saying, “Everybody, now, we
dialog: can stop technology. All
dialog: together...”
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So what happened?
text: He demonstrates by throwing his body against his seat.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: And you know, me and a few others
dialog: tried for a while, but we couldn’t
dialog: stop technology.
text: The wife who stormed away earlier suddenly comes back and the
text: argument resumes, right in front of them.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: I was thinking about going to the
dialog: lounge car sometimes soon. You
dialog: wanna go?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: We better.
text: They get up and walk to the door of their car. He pushes the
text: DOOR OPEN button, and as the door opens, he extends his hand
text: toward her.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Oh, I’m Jesse. It’s James,
dialog: actually, but my whole life
dialog: everyone’s called me Jesse.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So it’s Jesse James?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: No, just Jesse.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Celine.
text: They proceed through the door and Celine pushes the DOOR OPEN
text: button to enter the next car. There is some confusion as to
text: who is opening the door for whom before Celine proceeds and
text: jesse follows her toward the lounge car.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE CAR - AFTERNOON 2
text: They sit at a table, eating chips and taking an occasional
text: swig from a drink.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So how do you speak such good
dialog: English?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I went to school for a summer in
dialog: Los Angeles and I’ve spent some
dialog: time in London. How do you speak
dialog: such good English?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I’m American.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I know. It’s a joke. I knew you
dialog: were American, and, of course, you
dialog: don’t speak any other language.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, yeah, I’m the dumb, vulgar
dialog: American who has no culture. But I
dialog: tried. I want you to know I took
dialog: four years of French. I tried, I
dialog: was ready. When I was in Paris, I
text: was standing in line at the metro
dialog: going, “Un billet, s’il vous plait.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: Un billet, s’il vous plait.” And
dialog: then I got up to the window, I
text: looked up at the lady and blanked
dialog: out. “Uh, uh, I need a ticket for
dialog: the subway.” No more French for
dialog: me.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: So where are you headed?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Back to Paris. My class starts
dialog: next week.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Where do you go to school?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: La Sorbonne. You know?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Sure. But you were in Budapest?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah, I was visiting my
dialog: grandmother.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: How is she?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Okay. How about you - where are
dialog: you going?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Vienna.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What’s there?
speaker_heading: JESSE
text: I don’t know. I’m flying out of
dialog: there tomorrow morning.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Are you on a holiday?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t know what I’m on. I’ve
dialog: just been traveling around the last
dialog: two or three weeks.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Were you visiting friends, or just
dialog: going around on your own?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I visited a friend in Madrid for a
dialog: while, but mostly I’ve just been...
dialog: (new thought)
dialog: I got one of those Eurail passes,
dialog: and you know what’s fascinating
dialog: about traveling around? You spend
dialog: all this time trying to reach your
dialog: destination, you get there, you
dialog: look around, it’s never exactly
dialog: what you’d hoped, you head off
dialog: somewhere else, and hope for
dialog: something better.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It’s like getting ready for a
text: party, getting there, and falling
dialog: asleep. That’s why when I’m
dialog: traveling I kind of force myself
dialog: not to expect anything from
dialog: anywhere or anyone. And then,
text: whatever happens is a surprise.
dialog: The most insignificant thing can
text: become an endless subject of
dialog: interest, no?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: That’s what I like about traveling -
dialog: you can sit down, maybe talk to
dialog: someone interesting, see something
dialog: beautiful, read a good book, and
dialog: that’s enough to qualify a good
dialog: day. You do that at home and
dialog: everyone thinks you’re a bum.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I like that though. But it’s like
dialog: my favorite American writers. They
dialog: describe everything you wouldn’t
dialog: want to live through, and yet you
dialog: cannot stop reading of this
dialog: exciting, boring life.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So what do you study?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Literature. But I haven’t decided
dialog: yet what I really want to do.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Do you want to write?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah, but...
dialog: (new thought)
dialog: I kind of had this obsession a few
dialog: years ago about creating a new form
dialog: of expression. It was of course an
dialog: abstract and lost quest, but I was
dialog: feeling all art forms seemed used
dialog: up. I was especially rejecting
text: words. They seemed so rusted and
dialog: dirty. And they’ve been used for
dialog: such evil ends. Sometimes, you
dialog: know, language is so limited. It’s
dialog: like...if you think about it...
text: She holds her hands out fairly wide and round.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: This is an individual’s mental
dialog: experience and perception and...
text: She holds her hands together and forms a small circle.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: This is how much can be expressed
dialog: through language. We just don’t
dialog: have words for so many of the
dialog: impressions we have.
text: She parts her hands and gestures to the large outer circle.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: So most of our life we will never
dialog: be able to express to anyone.
text: They sit there for an extended moment, neither sure what to
text: say next. Suddenly Jesse smiles and jokingly starts to get
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So I guess...that’s it - it’s been
dialog: nice not communicating with you.
text: They both laugh.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: Really, though, I basically agree
dialog: with you, and maybe it’s a sad face
dialog: of life, but I think it doesn’t
dialog: bother me that much. Maybe I’m
dialog: wrong about this, but I think that
text: lack of communication frustrates
dialog: women more than men.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes, because men are perfectly
text: content to sit in front of TV all
dialog: day drinking beer and watching
dialog: sports.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, that’s true, but have you
dialog: ever done that? I did it once with
dialog: a friend of mine. Drank some beer,
dialog: had some chips, and watched a
dialog: couple of games. It was the first
dialog: time in years I literally jumped
dialog: for joy. On some level it’s
dialog: sticking your head in the sand, but
dialog: on another I think it must serve
dialog: some tribal purpose.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I actually agree with you. I kind
dialog: of like sports. It’s one of these
dialog: few times when men are treated like
dialog: stupid objects...I’m joking. So
dialog: you haven't told me what you do.
dialog: Are you still in school?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Nah, I never graduated from
dialog: college.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Are you working?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I have a stupid job like everyone
dialog: else.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Is it boring? You’re not happy?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: No, it’s a decent job. I don’t get
dialog: paid that much. I don’t do that
dialog: much.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So what is the job?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I write for a newspaper, the Fort
dialog: Worth Star-Telegram, and pretty
dialog: much get to do what I want there
dialog: creatively, so it’s okay.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So you write?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Kinda.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So has this trip been good for you?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah. I mean, on one level, it
dialog: sucked, but sitting on a train and
text: staring out the window for days on
dialog: end has actually been kind of
dialog: great.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I've had an idea I probably would
dialog: never have had otherwise. Can I
dialog: tell you about it?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Some friends of mine are these
dialog: cable access producers - you know,
dialog: anyone can produce a program, and
dialog: they have to show it. I got really
dialog: jazzed about it. I imagined a show
dialog: I want to produce that would last
dialog: an entire year, twenty-four hours a
dialog: day. I want to get 365 different
dialog: video producers around the world to
dialog: each make their own twenty-four-
text: hour-long document of real time,
text: capturing life around them just as
dialog: it is lived. So it’d be people
text: waking up, taking a long shower,
text: getting a cup of coffee and reading
dialog: the paper for twenty minutes, a
dialog: long drive to work.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: You mean all those boring, mundane
dialog: things everyone has to do every day
dialog: of their life?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I was going to say the poetry of
dialog: day-to-day life.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: I mean, Why is your dog so great
dialog: just for sleeping in the sun? And
text: a guy getting money out of a bank
dialog: machine is a moron?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So you can put on the TV at any
dialog: time of the day and see what other
text: people are doing at the same time.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Right. It’s like parallel lives.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: That's great. I once lived ina
dialog: big apartment I was sharing with
dialog: friends, and we could see ten other
dialog: apartments from the window. I
dialog: would cut down the light, sit at
text: the window, and watch them sitting
text: on a couch doing nothing. It was
dialog: fascinating.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: That’s the trick. Life is not
dialog: really about drama. That we all do
dialog: the same shit and going to some
dialog: market in Arabia is the same as
text: going to Kmart in Miami. People
dialog: believe they are missing out, that
dialog: everyone else has this great and
dialog: exciting life and they don’t. I
dialog: mean, we all have to get dressed,
dialog: feed the kids, get our driver's
dialog: licence renewed, look up what time
text: the afternoon matinee starts, lose
dialog: ourselves in entertainment, lose
dialog: ourselves in sex, routine, getting
text: a little too drunk, buying a
dialog: present for someone you don’t like
dialog: very much - you feel guilty about
dialog: not liking them, so you spend a
dialog: little too much money.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So, it’s like a National Geographic
dialog: program on people.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Exactly.
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: I can see it: twenty-four boring
text: hours and a three-minute sex scene
text: where he falls asleep right after.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Exactly. And that would be an
dialog: exciting episode. Maybe you and
dialog: your friends can do one of those
text: episodes from Paris. The key to
dialog: making this work would be in the
dialog: distribution. Getting the tapes
dialog: from town to town on time...But it
dialog: would play continuously twenty-four
dialog: hours for a year on stations around
dialog: the world.
text: The waiter finally arrives and gives them the menus.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE CAR - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Some time has passed. They have dirty dishes in front of
text: them. They seem more relaxed with each other, more
text: forthright, less self-conscious, a little more intimate.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: My parents have never really spoken
dialog: of the possibility of my falling in
dialog: love or getting married or having
dialog: children. Even as a little girl,
dialog: they wanted me to think about a
dialog: future career as a TV newscaster,
dialog: or a dentist, or something like
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Anchorwoman...
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah, I'd say to my dad I wanted to
dialog: be a writer and he’d say
dialog: journalist. I'd say I wanted to
dialog: have a refuge for stray cats and
dialog: he'd say veterinarian. I'd say I
dialog: wanted to be an actress and he’d
dialog: say TV newscaster. It was this
dialog: constant conversion of my fanciful
dialog: ambitions into practical
dialog: moneymaking ventures.
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Parents just want you to have a
dialog: nice career so they can tell their
dialog: friends something interesting.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I musta had a pretty decent
dialog: bullshit detector when I was a kid.
dialog: I always knew when they were lying
dialog: to me. By the time I was in
dialog: highschool, I was dead set on
dialog: listening to what everyone thought
dialog: I should be doing with my life and
text: then almost systematically doing
dialog: the opposite. They weren’t really
dialog: mean about it. All their typical
dialog: ambitions sounded so mediocre.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: If you have parents that never
dialog: fully contradict anything you want
dialog: to do and are basically nice and
dialog: supportive, it makes it harder to
dialog: officially complain. Even when
dialog: they are wrong. It’s this passive-
dialog: aggressive shit. I can’t stand it.
text: Jesse takes a swig of water and chews some ice.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, but despite plenty of
dialog: bullshit, I still remember being a
dialog: kid as a magical time.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I remember my mom explaining death
dialog: to me, and telling me that my great-—
dialog: grandmother in Florida had died.
dialog: The whole family had just visited
dialog: them. I must have been three,
text: three and a half years old.
dialog: Anyway, I was playing in the
dialog: backyard a day or so later, and my
dialog: sister had taught me how to spray
text: the garden hose into the sun and
dialog: see a rainbow. Well, I was
text: spraying it and through the mist I
dialog: could see my great-grandmother
text: standing there, just kind of
text: smiling, looking at me. I just
dialog: held the hose in that position for
text: a long time and looked at her.
text: Finally, I took my thumb off the
text: nozzle, let the hose go, and she
dialog: disappeared.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: My parents gave me this rap about
dialog: how I imagined it and how when
dialog: people die you never see them
dialog: again. But, I knew what I had
dialog: seen, and even though I’ve never
dialog: seen anything like that since, I’ve
dialog: never really been very afraid of
dialog: death.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: That’s good you can have that
dialog: attitude toward death. I think I
dialog: am afraid of death twenty-four
dialog: hours a day. That’s why I’m on the
dialog: train. I could have flown to
dialog: Paris. I’m just afraid of flying.
dialog: Even though statistics say it’s
dialog: safer, I can’t help it. When I’m
dialog: sitting in a plane, I already can
dialog: see an explosion, me falling
text: through the clouds. I’m so afraid
dialog: of the few seconds of consciousness
dialog: before dying. I mean, when you
dialog: know for sure you’re gonna die. I
text: can’t help anticipating the worst.
dialog: Like, I was in the park with this
dialog: friend of mine. There were little
dialog: kids playing around. This mother
text: was throwing her child up in the
text: air. My friend was smiling and
dialog: thought it was so wonderful, and
dialog: all I could think of was her
text: dropping it. I could already see
text: all the blood on the ground. The
dialog: big panic, the mother crying...I
dialog: think like this all the time. It’s
text: exhausting.
text: We see out the window that the train is pulling into Vienna.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: This is Vienna. You get off here,
dialog: no?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Drag. I wish I would have met you
dialog: earlier. I really like talking to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It was really nice talking to you,
dialog: too.
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I've hardly talked to anyone in
dialog: weeks.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN STATION - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The train comes to a final stop. The doors open and soon
text: everyone is unboarding and boarding.
scene_heading: INT. LOUNGE CAR - LATE AFTERNOON
text: With a slight smile, Jesse looks intensely at Celine.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I have an admittedly insane
dialog: thought. If I don’t ask you this,
dialog: it’ll be one of those things that
dialog: will haunt me forever.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What?
text: He just looks at her a little nervously and can’t say it.
text: She is truly intrigued and a little excited at what he’s
text: struggling with.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I want to keep talking with you. I
dialog: mean, I have no idea what your
dialog: situation is, but I feel some kind
dialog: of...connection.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah, me too.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So how about this. Okay, good...I
dialog: want you to get off her in Vienna
dialog: with me. We can check out the
dialog: town.
text: She smiles at the thought but is not totally sure.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So what would we do?
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t know. All I know is I’m
dialog: getting on this Austria Airlines
dialog: flight at nine-thirty tomorrow
dialog: morning and I can’t really afford a
dialog: hotel and we'll probably just
dialog: wander around all night. If I turn
dialog: out to be a psycho, you can bail
dialog: out anytime and get back on the
dialog: next train, right?
text: She's still thinking but doesn’t respond.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: Think of it like this. Jump ahead
dialog: ten, twenty years. Your marriage
dialog: just doesn’t have that same energy
dialog: anymore. You start to blame your
dialog: husband. You think of all the guys
dialog: you've met and all the ones you
dialog: never pursued and how things might
dialog: have been different if you’d just
dialog: picked up with one of them. Well,
dialog: I’m one of them. You can consider
text: this traveling back in time, to see
dialog: what you are missing. See, this is
dialog: really a big favor to both you and
dialog: your future husband - it’s a chance
dialog: to see how you really haven’t
dialog: missed anything. That I’m just as
text: boring and unmotivated as he is,
dialog: hopefully more.
text: She smiles a little, ponders the situation, and then just
text: stands up.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I’m not sure if I got all the
dialog: story, but let me get my bag.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN STATION - LATE AFTERNOON 6
text: He gets off the train with his bags and starts walking, not
text: fully aware she’s not right behind him. She has hesitated
text: slightly and pauses at the top of the stairs. After glancing
text: back briefly, she looks ahead and proceeds with confidence.
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN STATION - LATE AFTERNOON 7
text: Inside the busy train station lobby, they stop at a change
text: machine and exchange currency.
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN STATION - LATE AFTERNOON
text: He finishes putting his stuff in a locker. She opens a
text: locker and stuffs her bag in.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: You know what this makes me think
dialog: of?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: All those people you briefly
dialog: intersect with, maybe make eye
text: contact with, and then pass by.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yes, we could have done that. Now
dialog: it’s like...
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No matter what happens, we have
dialog: met.
text: Jesse just smiles and offers up his open hand. She touches
text: her hand to his and there is a slow clasp and a slight pull
text: toward one another.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: That we have.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE - DAY
text: Walking along in silence, they both are observing what is
text: around them and eventually look back at each other. Fully
text: realizing they are now committed to one another in some
text: strange way, there is an awkward silence.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It’s such a strange feeling. When
dialog: we were talking on the train, it’s
dialog: like we were in public - there were
dialog: people around us. Now that we’re
text: actually walking around Vienna,
text: it’s like we are all alone.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know. It feels a little awkward.
dialog: I’m not sure what we should be
dialog: doing.
text: He puts his hand on her shoulder and looks right at her.
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: But this is okay, though, right?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes, this is great. Let’s go to
dialog: some places. Look at your little
dialog: book.
text: He pulls out a little pamphlet/map and starts looking through
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Good. Right. We're in Vienna and
dialog: we're going to go places.
text: Just then two local passersby, TEX and KARL, walk past them.
text: Jesse stops them.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: Excuse me. Sprechen Sie English?
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Yah, of course.
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: Perhaps you speak German for a
dialog: change?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: It was a joke.
text: Tex looks over at Karl, both in on it.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: We just got into Vienna and we're
dialog: looking for something fun to do...
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah, are there any museums we
dialog: should see or anything?
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: Museums are not exactly fun these
dialog: days.
text: Karl looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: And they are all closing right now,
dialog: anyway. How long are you going to
dialog: be here?
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Just tonight.
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: Why did you come to Vienna? What
dialog: could you be expecting?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: We’re on our honeymoon...
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, she’s pregnant, so we decided
dialog: to go ahead and get married.
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: I don’t believe you. You are not
dialog: very good at lying.
text: Celine and Jesse laugh while Tex and Karl talk amongst
text: themselves in German.
speaker_heading: TEX (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you have the fliers?
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Yeah, I’1l give them one.
text: Karl digs in his pocket and hands a flier to them.
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: This is a play we’re both in we’d
dialog: like you to come to.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So you are actors?
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: Not professional actors, but part-
dialog: time for fun.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: It’s a play about a cow, and an
text: Indian searching for it. It also
dialog: has politicians, Mexicans,
dialog: Russians...
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: You have a real cow onstage?
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: Not a real cow. It’s an actor ina
text: cow costume.
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: And he’s the cow.
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: Yes, I’m the cow. But it’s a weird
dialog: cow.
speaker_heading: KARL
text: The cow has a disease.
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: She's acting a bit strange...acting
text: like a dog. If someone throws a
text: stick, she fetches it. She also
text: smokes, with her hoofs.
text: He demonstrates how one would smoke with a hoof instead of a
text: hand. Karl points to the bottom of the flier.
speaker_heading: KARL
text: The address is on the flier. It’s
dialog: in the second district...
speaker_heading: TEX
text: Near the Prater...
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Yes, the place with the big Ferris
dialog: wheel.
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: The big wheel everybody knows...
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Perhaps you can go to the Prater
text: before the play.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So what's the name of this play?
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: It translates as...
speaker_heading: BOTH
dialog: “Bring Me the Horns of Wilmington’s
dialog: Cow.”
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Sounds great.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Cool.
dialog: 20.
text: Tex puts his index finger up by his head as everyone begins
text: to walk away.
speaker_heading: TEX
dialog: I am the cow...and you will be
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: We'll try to make it.
scene_heading: 10 EXT. BETWEEN THE MUSEUMS - DAY 10
text: They sit on a bench near a statue, looking up at the historic
text: buildings and surroundings.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Look at this - it’s beautiful. I
dialog: mean, could you imagine an American
dialog: architect saying, “Hey, Bob, I’ve
dialog: got an idea. Why don’t we put a
text: giant angel on top of this building
dialog: just for people to have something
dialog: beautiful to look at.” It might
dialog: start out like that, but before too
dialog: long it'd be, “Sorry, Hank, boss
text: said nix on the giant angel. He’s
text: thinking more along the lines of a
dialog: flagpole.”
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Americans always think Europe is
dialog: perfect. But such beauty and
dialog: history can be really oppressive.
dialog: It reduces the individual to
dialog: nothing. It just reminds you all
dialog: the time you are just a little
dialog: speck in a long history, where in
dialog: America you feel like you could be
dialog: making history. That’s why I liked
dialog: Los Angeles because it is so...
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Ugly?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, I was going to say “neutral.”
text: It’s like looking at a blank
dialog: canvas.
dialog: (a beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 11
dialog: 12
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: I think people go to places like
text: Venice on their honeymoon to make
dialog: sure they are not going to fight
dialog: for the first two weeks of their
dialog: marriage because they’1l be too
text: busy looking around at all the
dialog: beautiful things. That’s what
dialog: people call a romantic place -
dialog: somewhere where the prettiness with
dialog: contain your primary violent
dialog: instinct. A real good honeymoon
dialog: spot would be like somewhere in New
dialog: Jersey.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAM STATION - DAY 11
text: They come down the escalator and board a tram.
scene_heading: INT. TRAM - DAY 12
text: They are sitting in the tram and observing everything going
dialog: by.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, Q&A time. We’ve known each
dialog: other for a little while now, we’re
dialog: stuck with each other, we can ask
dialog: each other a few, you know, direct
dialog: questions.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So we ask each other questions?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: And you have to answer one hundred
dialog: percent honestly.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Of course.
text: Celine picks up on the game he is talking about.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: First question. Describe your
dialog: first sexual feelings toward
dialog: someone.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Well, let me think...Jean-Marc
dialog: Fleury.
dialog: He thinks
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Jean-Marc Fleury?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: We were at this summer camp
dialog: together and he was a swimmer. He
text: had that bleached-out, chlorine
dialog: hair and green eyes, and to improve
dialog: his times, he’d shave the hair off
text: his legs and arms. So he was like
dialog: this gorgeous dolphin. My friend
dialog: Emma had a big crush on him, and
dialog: one day I was cutting across the
text: field on my way back to my room, he
text: came walking up beside me. I told
dialog: him he should ask Emma out because
dialog: she had a big crush on him, and he
dialog: said, “That’s too bad, because I
dialog: have a big crush on you.” And it
dialog: really scared the hell out of me
dialog: because I thought he was so fine.
dialog: He officially asked me out on a
dialog: date but I pretended that I didn’t
dialog: like him because I was afraid of
dialog: what I might do. But I went toa
dialog: swim competition and watched him
dialog: swimming around. He was so sexy.
dialog: At the end of the summer we sort of
dialog: wrote these little declarations of
dialog: love to each other and said we
dialog: would keep writing and for sure
text: meet again soon.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Did you?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Of course not.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I think then this is the
dialog: appropriate time to tell you I
dialog: happen to be an excellent swimmer.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Okay, I’1l make a note, but it’s my
dialog: turn to ask a question. Have you
dialog: ever been in love?
text: for a bit and then starts in.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yes. Okay, next question. What do
dialog: you think is you --
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Wait a minute. We can give on-word
dialog: answers?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: After I went into such detail about
dialog: my first sexual feelings?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: But there's a big difference
dialog: between those two things. I could
dialog: tell you all about my first sexual
dialog: feelings, no big deal. What if I
dialog: asked you about love?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I would have lied, but at least I
dialog: would've made a great story.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: See. The whole concept of love is
dialog: much more complex. Love’s like God
dialog: or something: It’s everywhere...I
dialog: see it, I feel it, but I don’t know
dialog: if another person is going to hand
dialog: it to me.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Unfortunately, I know what you
dialog: mean.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: For what it’s worth, my first
dialog: sexual feelings were experienced
text: through an obsessive relationship
dialog: with Miss July, 1978. You know
dialog: Playboy?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, name something that really
dialog: pisses you off.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Oh, gosh, everything pisses me off.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Like what?
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I hate being told by strange men to
dialog: smile, just to make them feel
dialog: better about their stupid lives. I
dialog: hate that three hundred kilometers
text: away a war is going on. People are
dialog: dying. And nobody knows what to do
dialog: about it. I hate how the media
dialog: tries to control our minds. It’s a
text: new form of very subtle fascism.
dialog: And I hate in a foreign country
dialog: each time I wear black or lose my
dialog: temper or express an opinion about
dialog: anything, everyone always goes:
dialog: “Oh, it’s so French, it’s so cute.”
dialog: Oh, I hate that.
text: They both laugh a bit at her becoming riled up so quickly.
text: She calms down and asks him a question.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s my turn now. So what’s a
dialog: problem for you?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: You, probably.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: No, really, I had a thought about a
dialog: week ago that’s kind of a problem.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Do you believe in reincarnation?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: On some level it’s interesting.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah. It seems like a lot of
text: people are talking about past lives
dialog: and all that. And even if you
dialog: don’t believe in that in a specific
dialog: way, most people have some notion
dialog: of an eternal soul, right? Anyway,
dialog: my thought was, if we all have our
dialog: origins at the beginning of human
dialog: history in some way, where did all
dialog: the current souls come from?
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 13
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: The earth’s population fifty
dialog: thousand years ago was not even a
dialog: million people. Ten thousand years
dialog: ago, it was only a few million.
dialog: Now, the earth’s population is
dialog: between five and six billion.
dialog: That’s about a five-thousand-to-one
dialog: split of each soul in just the last
dialog: fifty thousand years, which is just
text: a blip in the earth’s time. At
dialog: best, we’re just a tiny fraction of
dialog: a soul. Is that why we all feel so
dialog: scattered?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So, that’s a problem?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know, it’s kind of a scattered
dialog: thought, which is all the more
dialog: reason it makes sense.
scene_heading: INT. RECORD STORE - DAY 13
text: They enter the old, vinyl-only store and start to browse.
speaker_heading: JESSE
text: Is that a listening booth over
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes, I think so.
text: They keep looking through albums. She eventually finds an
text: album and holds it up to him.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: Have you ever heard of this singer?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: (reading)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I think she’s American. I have
dialog: this friend in LA who told me about
dialog: her. I’ve never been able to find
dialog: any of her stuff. I think it’s
dialog: kind of folksy, lyrical stuff.
text: Jesse points across the store.
dialog: 14
dialog: 15
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Lets’ see if that listening booth
dialog: works.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Let’s try it.
text: They walk over to the booth and enter. She takes the album
text: out and puts it on the turntable. As the music starts they
text: both kind of lean against opposite walls in the small glass
text: booth and concentrate on the song.
speaker_heading: SONG
text: There’s a wind that blows in from the north
dialog: And it says that loving takes its course
dialog: Come here, come here
dialog: No, I’m not impossible to touch
dialog: I have never wanted you so much
dialog: Come here. Come here...
text: They glance subtly up at each other but usually not when the
text: other is looking. The song makes both of them a little
text: nervous as it brings out a shyness about the uncertainty of
dialog: their relationship at that point.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY - DAY 14
text: They ride on a subway as it breaks out of a tunnel into
dialog: sunlight.
scene_heading: EXT. NAMELESS CEMETERY - DAY 15
text: They walk down the steps toward the small cemetery. A rabbit
text: runs past them.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I visited this as a young teenager.
dialog: It left a bigger impression on me
dialog: at that time than any of the
dialog: museums we went to.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: It’s small.
text: Inside, they wander around looking at the mostly identical
dialog: crosses.
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes. There was this little old man
dialog: who talked to us. He was the
dialog: groundskeeper. Almost everyone
dialog: buried here washed up on the bank
text: where the Danube curves away.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: How old are these?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Around the beginning of the century
dialog: or so. It’s called Cemetery of the
dialog: No Name because they often didn’t
dialog: really know who these people were.
dialog: Maybe a first name.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Why were there so many bodies
text: washing up on the banks of the
dialog: Danube?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I think some were from accidents on
dialog: boats and things like that, but
dialog: most of them were suicides that
text: jumped in the river.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I always liked the idea of all
dialog: these unknown people, lost in the
dialog: world. When I was young I always
dialog: thought that if none of your family
dialog: or friends knew you were dead, then
text: it’s like not really being dead.
dialog: People can invent the best or the
dialog: worst for you.
text: She stops by one grave.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, here she is. This is the one I
dialog: remember the most. She was
dialog: thirteen when she died. That meant
dialog: something to me because I was that
dialog: age when I saw this. Now I’m ten
dialog: years older and she’s
dialog: still...thirteen, I guess.
scene_heading: 16 EXT. TRAM STATION - DUSK 16
text: Montage shot of them riding on the tram at dusk.
dialog: 17
dialog: 28.
scene_heading: EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - SUNSET 17
text: They are in the huge old Ferris wheel in the Prater amusement
text: park. They have a large box to themselves and walk around in
text: it looking at the various views.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: When I’m up above everyone like
dialog: this, I always think like the
dialog: entire human race is this body, and
dialog: we're all cells in the body. It’s
dialog: an amazing, exquisite mess, no?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah...
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I want to change the subject for a
dialog: second. This could be an important
dialog: moment. I don’t know if you
dialog: noticed, but we’re alone in this
text: car. The sun is going down...
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Before the night is over, is it
dialog: safe to assume that we’re going to
dialog: kiss?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Maybe.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Maybe?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Probably.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Probably. Then I propose we jump
dialog: in time to that moment when we
dialog: would naturally do that - probably
dialog: a couple of hours from now after a
dialog: certain amount of awkwardness and
dialog: stuff - and bring that moment back
dialog: to here and now, given these ideal
dialog: surroundings. It’ll be a great way
dialog: to remember not only our first
dialog: kiss, but this great sunset, the
dialog: Ferris wheel, Vienna...
text: Celine walks over to him and puts her arms around his neck.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: How come every time you want me to
dialog: do something, you start talking
dialog: about time travel?
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, I think we should kiss right
dialog: now.
text: They begin kissing and the Ferris wheel keeps moving.
scene_heading: 18 EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - NIGHT 18
text: Walking along, they are in mid-conversation.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: But I don’t think it matters what
dialog: generation you’re born into. Look
dialog: at my parents. They were these
text: angry young May ‘68 people
dialog: revolting against everything - the
dialog: government, their conservative
dialog: Catholic backgrounds. I was born
dialog: not long after and my dad went on
dialog: to become this successful architect
dialog: and we began to travel all over the
dialog: world and I was raised with all the
dialog: freedoms they had fought for. And
dialog: yet for me now, it’s another type
dialog: of fight. We still have to deal
dialog: with all the same shit. But you
dialog: can’t really know what or who the
dialog: enemy is.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t know if there is an enemy.
dialog: Everyone’s parents fucked them up.
dialog: They either left them or stuck
dialog: around and taught them the wrong
dialog: stuff. Rich kids’ parents give
dialog: them too much, poor kids’ not
dialog: enough. You either get too much
dialog: attention or not enough. My
dialog: parents are just these two people
dialog: who didn’t like each other very
dialog: much who got married and had a kid.
dialog: And they tried to be nice to me.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Did your parents divorce?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, finally. They should have
dialog: done it earlier, but they stuck
dialog: together for the well-being of my
dialog: sister and me. Thanks.
dialog: (a beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: You know, my mom once told me,
text: right in front of my father when
dialog: they were in this big fight, that
dialog: he was really, really pissed off
dialog: when he found out she was pregnant
dialog: with me - that I was this big
dialog: mistake. Looking back on it, I
dialog: think that shaped the way I think.
dialog: I saw the world as this place I
dialog: wasn’t really meant to be and had
dialog: the people who created me had more
dialog: control of the situation, I
dialog: wouldn’t exist.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: But that’s so sad.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I think I eventually found a
dialog: comfort in that. Like my life was
dialog: my own doing or something.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: My parents are still together and I
dialog: think they’re happy. But I think
dialog: it’s a healthy process to rebel
dialog: against your parents and everything
dialog: that came before. In a certain
dialog: way, more than rebelling, it’s to
dialog: have the feeling that we’re finding
dialog: a new way to deal with love, sex,
dialog: society, everything. We should
dialog: always have to reinvent and make it
dialog: our own.
text: They walk in silence, just taking in all around them for a
text: few moments. A couple walks by, but both are completely in
dialog: their own worlds.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve been wondering lately...do you
dialog: know anyone who’s in a happy
dialog: relationship?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, I know happy couples, but it
text: seems like they have to lie to each
dialog: other.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: People can live their whole life as
dialog: a lie.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: My grandmother was married to this
dialog: man, and I always thought she had a
dialog: very simple, uncomplicated love
dialog: life. But she just confessed to me
dialog: that she spent her life dreaming
dialog: about another man she was always in
dialog: love with. She just accepted her
dialog: fate. I was so sad. But I also
dialog: found it very beautiful that she
dialog: had all those emotions I never
dialog: thought she would have had.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I guarantee you that it was better
dialog: that way. Had she got to know him,
dialog: he would have disappointed her
dialog: eventually.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: How do you know? You don’t know
dialog: who they are.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know. It’s just people have all
dialog: these romantic projections.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What do you mean, Mr. Romantic up
text: in the Ferris wheel kiss me now as
dialog: the sun is going down...?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: All right, all right. What about
dialog: your grandmother? Finish your
dialog: thought.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It just amazed me that I’ve spent
dialog: over twenty years of my life around
dialog: her and I didn’t know her.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: You know her, but no one really
dialog: knows anyone. That’s the thing
dialog: about relationships - people are
dialog: always saying, “I want to know you,
dialog: I want to know who you are.” But
dialog: it is so hard for anyone to even
dialog: know themselves. Who I am is
dialog: always changing, so how can anyone
dialog: else share in that?
dialog: 19
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So that’s it? It’s been nice not
dialog: knowing you.
text: They look over and see several elderly couples riding the
text: bumper cars.
scene_heading: EXT. KLEINES CAFE - NIGHT 19
text: They are sitting at a table in a sparsely populated outdoor
text: café. Jesse looks around briefly and then suddenly leans
text: over and kisses a slightly surprised Celine.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I just wanted to kiss you again.
text: Celine sort of smiles and shrugs her shoulders when a ROSE
text: PEDDLER suddenly approaches them. She is an older gypsy-
text: looking woman and holds up her bunch of roses toward Jesse.
speaker_heading: ROSE PEDDLER
dialog: (in German)
dialog: You buy a rose for the young lady?
text: Jesse smiles and digs in his pocket.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Sure, how many schillings?
speaker_heading: ROSE PEDDLER
dialog: Twenty.
text: As Jesse hands her the coins and she gives him the rose, she
text: suddenly turns all her attention to Celine. She impulsively
text: grabs her hand and intensely starts looking at her palm.
speaker_heading: ROSE PEDDLER (CONT’D)
dialog: You want your palm read?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Sure.
text: Celine looks over at Jesse, who rolls his eyes, feeling a
text: little invaded. She flashes him a “I want to do this, don’t
dialog: spoil it” look.
speaker_heading: ROSE PEDDLER
dialog: Hmmm. Uhh-huuh. So you have been
dialog: on a journey and you are a stranger
dialog: to this place. You are an
dialog: adventurer...a seeker...and
dialog: adventurer in your mind.
dialog: 33.
text: Celine is engrossed and occasionally nods.
speaker_heading: ROSE PEDDLER (CONT’D)
dialog: You are interested in the power of
text: the woman. In a woman’s deep
dialog: strength and creativity. You are
dialog: becoming this woman.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: You need to resign yourself to the
dialog: awkwardness of life. Only if you
dialog: find peace within yourself will you
dialog: find true connections with others.
text: The rose peddler looks up at Jesse and gestures to him.
speaker_heading: ROSE PEDDLER (CONT’D)
dialog: This is a stranger to you, yes?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Well, yeah, I guess.
text: The rose peddler authoritatively reaches for Jesse’s hand,
text: which he awkwardly offers up. She examines his hand
text: thoroughly, flips it over, examines his thumb, and lets him
dialog: take it back.
speaker_heading: ROSE PEDDLER
dialog: (to Celine)
dialog: You'll be alright
dialog: (a beat)
text: He is learning.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Okay?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Thank you. That was good.
text: Celine gets up and hands the woman several coins. As she
text: walks away, the older lady adds one last bit.
speaker_heading: ROSE PEDDLER
dialog: You are both stars, don’t forget.
dialog: When the stars exploded billions of
dialog: years ago, they formed everything
dialog: that is this world. The moon, the
dialog: trees, everything we know is
dialog: stardust. So don’t forget. You
dialog: are stardust.
text: They walk away, and Celine is filled with the experience but
text: Jesse looks a little annoyed. The more he builds up to a
text: rant, the more amused she seems to get.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: That’s all nice and everything, we
dialog: are stardust and all that, and you
dialog: are becoming this great woman, but
dialog: I hope you don’t think that’s much
dialog: different than reading your
dialog: horoscope in some syndicated daily
dialog: paper.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Well, she knew I was on vacation
dialog: and that we didn’t know each other
dialog: and that I was going to become this
dialog: great woman.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: And what was that “I am learning”
dialog: bullshit? That's waaay
dialog: condescending - she wasn’t even
dialog: doing me, and I even bought that
text: fucking rose from her.
dialog: (starting rant)
dialog: If opportunists like that would
dialog: ever tell the real truth, it would
dialog: put their asses out of business.
dialog: (new thought)
dialog: Just once I want to see some old
dialog: lady save up her money, and just as
dialog: she’s about to hear all this great
dialog: stuff, the fortune teller would
dialog: say,
dialog: (wide-eyed stare)
dialog: “Tomorrow and all your remaining
dialog: days will be a lot like today, a
dialog: tedious collection of hours. You
dialog: will have no new passions, travels,
dialog: or thoughts. When you die you will
dialog: be forgotten. Two hundred
dialog: schillings, please.” That I’d like
dialog: to see.
text: Celine plays with him.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So it’s funny how she almost didn’t
dialog: notice you. I loved what she said.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Of course you do. You pay your
dialog: money, you get to hear something
dialog: that makes you feel good.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 34.
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
dialog: 22
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, maybe there’s some seedy
dialog: section of Vienna where you can buy
text: a hit of crack.
text: Celine continues to laugh at him.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT 20
text: As they are walking, Celine notices a poster for an upcoming
text: exhibit of Seurat’s drawings.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Oh, man, this doesn’t start until
dialog: next week - we’ll miss it.
text: She motions to one of the drawings on the poster.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: I actually saw this one at a museum
dialog: a few years ago. I just stared and
text: stared at it - must have been forty-
text: five minutes.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Cool.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I love the way the people seem to
text: be dissolving into the background.
dialog: It’s like the environments are
dialog: stronger than the people. His
dialog: human figures always seem so
text: transitory.
scene_heading: EXT. CATHEDRAL - NIGHT 21
text: As they walk down the street, they wander up the steps to a
text: large cathedral. They check to see if the door is open. It
text: is, and they go inside.
scene_heading: INT. CATHEDRAL - NIGHT 22
text: They enter to find it completely empty but with hundreds of
text: candles still burning. In the background we hear the sound
text: of the organ being tuned.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Too bad it isn’t daytime so we
text: could see the stained glass windows
dialog: better.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I was in an old church like this
dialog: one with my grandmother in Budapest
dialog: a few days ago. Even though I
dialog: reject most of the religious thing,
text: I can’t help but feeling for all
dialog: those people that come here lost,
dialog: or in pain, guilt - who come here
text: looking for answers. It fascinates
dialog: me how a single place can join so
dialog: much pain and happiness, for so
dialog: many generations.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So you’re pretty close to your
dialog: grandmother.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes, I think so. I think it’s
dialog: because I’ve always had this
dialog: feeling that I’m this very old
text: woman, laying down, about to die,
text: and her last thoughts are the
dialog: remembrance of her youth and her
dialog: life. I feel like my life is just
dialog: her memories or something.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: That's wild. I always feel like
dialog: I’m still this thirteen-year-old
dialog: boy who doesn’t really know how to
dialog: be an adult. So it’s like I’m
text: pretending to live a life, taking
dialog: notes for when I’1l really have to
dialog: do it. Kind of like a dress
text: rehearsal for a junior high play.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: That's funny. So up there in the
dialog: Ferris wheel it was this very old
dialog: woman kissing this very young boy.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Get your head out of the gutter.
dialog: (new thought)
dialog: Do you know anything about the
dialog: Quakers?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, not much.
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: It’s really cool. I went to this
dialog: Quaker wedding once, and do you
dialog: know how they do it? The couple
text: kneels down in the middle of the
text: church in front of everyone, and
text: they stare at each other. Nobody
dialog: speaks unless God moves them to say
dialog: something - a blessing, a warning,
dialog: nothing, whatever. And then after
text: an hour of staring into each
dialog: other’s eyes, they’re married.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: That’s beautiful. I like that.
text: They stare at each other for an extended moment. He suddenly
text: has a new thought and smiles.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Gosh, this is kind of a horrible
dialog: story, but maybe this is an
dialog: appropriate place to tell it. I
dialog: was driving around with this buddy
dialog: of mine who’s this big atheist, and
dialog: we came to a stop where there was
text: this homeless guy holding up a sign
dialog: saying he needed a job or
text: something. My friend holds out a
dialog: hundred-dollar bill to him and
dialog: asks, “Do you believe in God?” The
text: guy looks at him, looks at the
dialog: money, and says, “Yes, I do.” My
dialog: friend goes, “Wrong answer,” and
text: drives away.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: That’s so mean.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTDOOR CAFE - NIGHT 23
text: As the rain falls, they run for cover, finding a seat under a
text: huge umbrella in an outdoor café.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT 24
text: They walk along.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Would you be in Paris yet if you
dialog: hadn’t gotten off the train?
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, not yet. And what would you be
dialog: doing?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t know - hanging out at the
text: airport, reading old magazines,
dialog: crying in my coffee because you
dialog: wouldn't get off the train with me.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Abh...
text: She gives him a little kiss.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: Actually, I'd probably have gotten
text: off the train in Salzburg with
text: someone else.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, yeah. I’m just that American
dialog: decorating your blank canvas.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, no. I’m having a great time.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Really? Me too.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I'm glad. I love this because no
dialog: one knows I’m here and I don’t know
dialog: anyone that knows you that would
dialog: tell me all the bad things you’ve
dialog: done.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I can tell you some.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I’m sure. You hear so much shit
dialog: about people. When I start dating
dialog: a guy, I always feel like a general
dialog: in the army - you know, plotting my
text: strategy and maneuverings, knowing
dialog: his weak points, what would hurt
dialog: him, seduce him...
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: But if we were around each other
dialog: all the time, what would be the
dialog: first thing about me that would
dialog: drive you crazy?
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t want to answer that. I
dialog: dated this girl once who used to
dialog: always ask me that. Finally, I
dialog: told her that I thought that she
dialog: didn’t handle criticism very well.
text: Then she flew into a rage and broke
dialog: up with me. But I think she really
dialog: just wanted the chance to say what
dialog: she thought was wrong with me. So
dialog: just tell me what it is about me
dialog: that bugs you.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, there’s nothing.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Tell me. C’mon, what?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I can’t think of anything.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I’m demanding you say something.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Actually, if I think about it, I
dialog: didn’t like this kind of behavior
dialog: back at the palm reader. You were
dialog: like this little rooster prick.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Rooster prick? What the hell is
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes, you were like this little
text: child whining because all the
text: attention wasn’t focused on him.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What are you talking about? This
dialog: woman robs you blind...
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: You were acting like a little boy
text: walking by an ice cream shop,
dialog: crying because his mother wouldn't
dialog: buy him a milk shake or something.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Wait a second. I didn’t care what
text: this flower-peddling charlatan had
dialog: to say about anything.
dialog: 40.
text: A man, the HOMELESS POET, approaches them.
scene_heading: HOMELESS POET
dialog: (in German)
dialog: I'd like to ask you something.
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: Uh, I speak okay, but he doesn’t at
dialog: all.
scene_heading: HOMELESS POET
dialog: (in English)
dialog: Okay, then. I’d like to make a
dialog: deal with you guys. Instead of
dialog: just asking for money, I’1l ask you
dialog: for a word. I will then write a
dialog: poem in which that word will be
dialog: used. I’11 write it in English.
dialog: If you like it, if you feel it adds
dialog: something to your life in any way,
dialog: then you can pay me whatever you
dialog: feel like.
scene_heading: CELINE AND JESSE
dialog: Okay, it’s a deal.
scene_heading: HOMELESS POET
dialog: Pick a word.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Uhh...
dialog: (to Celine)
dialog: What word?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Milk shake.
text: Jesse flashes her a look.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I was going to say “rooster prick.”
dialog: But perfect, of course, milk shake.
text: The poet walks off a ways and starts writing.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I like what he said about adding
dialog: something to your life.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know. Hey, were we just arguing
dialog: back there?
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, no...
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, I think we were.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Even if we were, why does everyone
dialog: think conflict is so bad? Good
text: things can come out of conflict.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I guess so. I think if I could
dialog: just accept the fact that life is
dialog: supposed to be difficult, and
dialog: that’s what’s to be expected, then
dialog: I wouldn't get so pissed off about
dialog: it. I’d just be happy when
dialog: something nice happened.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I think That’s why I’m still in
dialog: school. It’s easier to have
dialog: something to fight against.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: And we've all had this
dialog: competitiveness drilled into us.
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: I mean, I can be doing the most
dialog: nothing thing - shooting pool or
dialog: playing darts socially - and I’1l
dialog: feel it come over me: I want to
dialog: win, I want to do the best I can,
dialog: and my standards suddenly shift to
dialog: just beyond my abilities. I can
dialog: hear every coach or male teacher or
dialog: boss I ever had. “Jesse, you're
dialog: not trying hard enough! Get your
dialog: head out of your ass! Hustle up!”
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Is that why you tried to get me off
dialog: the train? Competitiveness?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: To make sure the guy behind you
dialog: didn’t pick me up? Where you
dialog: competing with him?
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What guy?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: That really cute, big, strong,
dialog: Italian-looking guy two seats
dialog: behind you that was smiling at me
dialog: the whole time.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: He’s better-looking than me?
text: The homeless poet returns with a small piece of paper.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: (to Jesse)
dialog: C'est la vie.
scene_heading: HOMELESS POET
dialog: I have your poem.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Will you read it to us?
scene_heading: HOMELESS POET
dialog: Sure.
dialog: (reads poem)
dialog: Daydream delusion
dialog: limousine eyelash
dialog: Oh baby with your pretty face
dialog: drop a tear in my
dialog: wineglass
dialog: Look at those big eyes on your face
dialog: see what you mean to me
dialog: Sweet cakes and milk shakes
dialog: I’m a delusion angel
dialog: I’m a fantasy parade
dialog: I want you to know what I think
dialog: don’t want you to guess
dialog: anymore
dialog: You have no idea where I came from
dialog: we have no idea where
dialog: we're going
dialog: Lodged in life
text: like branches in a river
dialog: flowing downstream
text: caught in the current
dialog: I’ll carry you you carry me
dialog: that’s how it could be
dialog: don’t you know me
dialog: don’t you know me by now
text: They are both silent.
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Wow...
dialog: They give him some money.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Thanks, man. Good luck.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It’s beautiful, no?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, that was beautiful. You
dialog: know, he didn’t just write that
dialog: poem...I’m not saying he didn’t
dialog: write that poem. He just didn’t
dialog: write it tonight. He just plugged
dialog: in that milk shake.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Nothing. It’s a nice poem.
text: They walk away.
scene_heading: 25 EXT. STREET - NIGHT 25
text: They continue walking along.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I want to ask you something. Do
dialog: you consider me detached?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Detached from what?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Someone once called me this
dialog: detached intellectual. I’m afraid
dialog: I am like that. I comment too much
dialog: on thing and maybe don’t feel close
dialog: enough to anything.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t feel that way about you at
dialog: all. Whoever said that is an
dialog: asshole.
dialog: 44,
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, but it’s my biggest fear. To
dialog: be one of those people with that
text: sort of academic, liberal, detached
dialog: view of everything. That whole
dialog: attitude has nothing to do with
dialog: really living.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Who’s to say what’s really living?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Well, I wonder. That’s the big
dialog: question, no? I think it’s either
dialog: a life experienced or a life
dialog: examined. But life examined is
dialog: life experienced.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Maybe if I had none of these stupid
dialog: artistic pretensions at all, I
dialog: would be looking at the world
dialog: differently.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know what you mean.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What’s that Thomas Mann quote? “TI
dialog: would rather participate in life
dialog: than write a hundred stories.”
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Hmmm, I like that.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I knew this guy once, this kind of
dialog: nerdy goth-rock guy. And he was
text: crossing the street one day, and he
dialog: got hit by a car. We all went to
text: see him in the hospital, and he was
dialog: going to be okay and everything,
dialog: but he told us that his strongest
dialog: sensation from the accident was the
dialog: joy he felt when he realized that
dialog: finally something was actually
text: happening to him.
text: They both laugh.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah, it’s like seeing yourself
dialog: from a third-person perspective. I
dialog: always feel like I’m observing my
dialog: life instead of living it.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 26
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: At my grandfather’s funeral, even
dialog: though I loved him, it seemed
dialog: everyone else was mourning and I
dialog: was too busy observing them; each
text: of them was like a paragraph of a
dialog: book I might write someday,
text: describing every emotion in detail.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know. I remember when I was
dialog: younger listening to my parents
dialog: fight and feeling like I was in an
text: after-school special on TV.
dialog: Thinking I should act moody, or
dialog: depressed. I should steal some
dialog: cigarettes and sunglasses, get
text: caught, and then blame it on the
dialog: fact that I come from a troubled
dialog: home.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah, I think I’m always so much
dialog: more happy with books and movies
dialog: and stuff. I think I get more
dialog: excited about well-done
dialog: representations of life than life
dialog: itself.
scene_heading: EXT. HOT DOG STAND - NIGHT 26
text: They walk up to Viennese hot dog stand and order something to
text: drink. They notice some of the interesting characters
text: hanging around, including the man behind the corner.
scene_heading: INT. CAFE - NIGHT 27
text: They enter an interesting old café. Celine goes to the
text: bathroom while Jesse waits. Separated from her for the first
text: time, he stands around a bit awkwardly, observing posters and
text: the goings-on in the café. She eventually returns and they
text: exit the café.
scene_heading: EXT. ARENA CLUB - NIGHT 28
text: They walk in front of a bar/club from which there is music
text: coming out.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: You want to go in?
dialog: 29
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah. Is there a cover?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: It’s cheap. I’11l pay.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Don’t worry about it. I’ve got
dialog: some cash.
scene_heading: INT. ARENA CLUB - NIGHT 29
text: A SINGER with a guitar is onstage finishing up a weird but
text: humorous song. He finishes and gets up to leave.
speaker_heading: SINGER
dialog: (in German)
dialog: Hey, um, stick around. I think Liz
dialog: is going to show her latest film
dialog: and provide some verbal
dialog: accompaniment.
text: A projector is set up to show against the back wall of the
text: stage. The filmmaker, LIZ, takes the microphone and sits on
text: the stage facing the screen. She has a piece of paper in her
text: hand and signals for the projectionist to start. The room
text: darkens and the film begins. Behind the first black-and-
text: white Super 8 images is the title scratched in white, in
text: German: A KIND OF NOISE AND A KIND OF SILENCE. The film
text: consists of images of fairly recent (1985-1994) events, bands
text: playing, catastrophes, televised images. Interspersed
text: throughout is an eerie series of images of solitary
text: individuals, some looking at the camera, some away. The film
text: evokes a melancholy and almost romantic loneliness. She
text: speaks in German and we read subtitles.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Our critique began, as all
text: critiques begin, with doubt...doubt
dialog: became our life. Ours was a quest
dialog: for a new story, our own, and we
dialog: grasped toward this new history,
text: driven by the Dada suspicion that
dialog: ordinary language could not tell
dialog: it.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Our past appeared frozen in the
dialog: distance and our every gesture and
text: accent bespoke the negation of an
text: old world and the reach for a new
dialog: one.
dialog: (a beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 30
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT'D)
dialog: The discovery of a true
dialog: communication was what it was about
dialog: - or at least the quest for such a
dialog: communication, the adventure of
dialog: finding it and losing it...we
text: continued looking, the unappeased
text: and the unaccepting, beneath,
text: outside, dispersed, communicating
text: only by a passing glance but still
dialog: knowing that no matter how empty
dialog: the world seemed, no matter how
dialog: degraded and used up the world
dialog: appeared to be, anything was still
dialog: possible.
text: Scratched on the film for a closing credit: TO BEGIN AGAIN,
text: FROM THE BEGINNING.
scene_heading: INT. BAR INSIDE THE ARENA COMPOUND - NIGHT 30
text: They are taking turns playing pinball.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So, we haven’t even talked about
dialog: this, but, uh, are you dating
dialog: anyone? You got a boyfriend
dialog: waiting for you in Paris or
dialog: anything like that?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, no, not right now...
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: You did?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: We broke up over six months ago.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I’m sorry. I mean, I’m not that
dialog: sorry, but, uh, tell me about it.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, no, it’s boring. I can’t
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: C'mon, c'mon.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I was really disappointed. I
dialog: thought this one would last a
dialog: while.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: He was very stupid, ugly, bad in
dialog: bed, alcoholic - I was kind of
dialog: giving him a favor. But he left me
dialog: saying I loved him too much and
dialog: because I was blocking his artistic
dialog: expression. I was traumatized and
text: became totally obsessed with him.
dialog: I went to see a shrink and it came
dialog: up that I had written these little
dialog: stories about how I was going to
dialog: kill him - all the intricate
dialog: details about how I would do it and
dialog: not get caught.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Kill him?
text: She realizes Jesse is looking at her a bit strangely.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Oh no, it’s nothing I would ever
dialog: do, I think it was just some
dialog: writing.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I understand.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Anyway, but this stupid shrink
dialog: believed everything I was telling
dialog: her. She said she had to call the
dialog: police. She was totally convinced
dialog: I was really going to do it even
dialog: though I told her it was just my
dialog: way of dealing with it. She said,
text: looking deep into my eyes, “The way
dialog: you said it, I know you are going
dialog: to do it.” That was my first and
dialog: last session. I totally got over
dialog: him, but now I’m obsessed that he’s
text: going to die from an accident,
text: maybe a thousand kilometers away,
dialog: and I will be accused.
text: Jesse just smiles. They change positions and she begins
dialog: playing.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: Why is it you become obsessed with
dialog: the people you don’t really care
dialog: for?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: So, what about you? Are you with
dialog: anyone?
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Funny, how we avoided this question
dialog: for so long.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I know, but now you have to tell
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t know. Love is like this
dialog: escape for people who haven’t
dialog: learned to be alone or to make
dialog: something of themselves. People
dialog: think love is this unselfish or
dialog: totally giving thing. But if you
dialog: think about it, there’s probably
dialog: nothing more selfish.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So who just broke up with you?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Sounds like you just got hurt.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay...big confession.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Actually, I’11 tell you something.
dialog: I didn’t just come to Europe to
dialog: find myself and read Hemingway in
dialog: Paris and shit like that. I worked
dialog: all spring saving up money to fly
dialog: to Madrid to spend the summer with
dialog: my girlfriend, who’s been on this
dialog: asinine art history program for the
dialog: last year. But I got over here,
dialog: and on our first night, reunited at
dialog: long last, we went out to dinner,
text: with five of her friends: Gonzalo,
dialog: Pedro, Maria, Antonio, Suzie from
dialog: home. She pretty much avoided
dialog: being alone with me the first
dialog: couple of days I was there, but I
dialog: stuck around awhile just to let it
dialog: sink in that she wished I hadn’t
dialog: come. So I got the cheapest
dialog: charter flight out of Europe, this
dialog: one leaving out of Vienna tomorrow,
dialog: but I had a couple of weeks to
dialog: kill, so I bought a Eurail pass.
dialog: (a beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: You know what the worst thing about
dialog: someone breaking up with you is?
dialog: Remembering how little you really
dialog: thought about the people you broke
dialog: up with and realizing that’s how
dialog: little they’re thinking about you.
dialog: You like to think you are both in
dialog: so much pain, but really they’re
dialog: just relieved you're gone.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Well, you should look at bright
dialog: colors.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: That’s what that shrink told me. I
dialog: was paying nine hundred francs an
dialog: hour to hear that I was a homicidal
dialog: maniac but I could perhaps shift my
dialog: obsession if I would concentrate on
text: bright colors.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Did it work?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I haven't killed him yet.
scene_heading: 31 EXT. STREET - NIGHT 31
text: Walking along, they are engaged in an upbeat, lively debate.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I mean, why is a man ultimately
dialog: judged so harshly on the issue of
dialog: fidelity? You can be the best
dialog: father and husband, you can be
dialog: supportive and a great friend to
dialog: your wife, but if you fuck around -
dialog: uh-oh, we had it all wrong, you're
dialog: really a loser. I mean, there are
dialog: these breeds of monkeys, and all
dialog: they do is have sex all the time.
dialog: And they’re the ones that are the
text: most peaceful and the most happy.
dialog: What’s so bad about fooling around?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: You're talking about monkeys?
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Sounds like a perfect male argument
dialog: for justifying them fooling around.
speaker_heading: JESSE
text: But the women monkeys are fooling
dialog: around too.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: You know, I had this awful paranoid
dialog: thought that feminism was mostly
dialog: invented by men so they could fuck
dialog: around more. Women, free your
dialog: mind, free your body, sleep with
dialog: me, we’re all free and happy as
dialog: long as I can fool around as much
dialog: as I want...
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: But think about it. If you had an
dialog: island with ninety-nine women and
dialog: one man, within a year you'd have
dialog: the possibility of ninety-nine
dialog: babies. If you had an island with
dialog: ninety-nine men and one woman,
dialog: after a year you’d have the
dialog: possibility of one baby.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yes, and there’d probably be only
text: about forty-three men left because
dialog: they would have killed each other.
dialog: And on the other island there would
dialog: be ninety-nine women, ninety-nine
dialog: babies, and no man because all the
dialog: women would have gotten together
text: and eaten him alive.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: There’s something to that, isn’t
dialog: there? I think women don’t mind
dialog: killing men on some level. Like, I
text: was walking down the street once
dialog: with my ex-girlfriend, and we pass
text: these four thuggy guys leaning on a
dialog: Camaro, and sure enough, one says,
dialog: “Hey babe, nice ass.” I keep
dialog: walking and I think, okay, have
dialog: your fun, is it that big a deal? I
dialog: don’t do anything. I let it
dialog: slide...
dialog: 32
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Plus there were four of them.
speaker_heading: JESSE
text: Exactly. So a few steps later, she
dialog: turns and says, “Fuck you,
dialog: dickheads.” I’m thinking, wait a
dialog: minute, they aren’t going to come
text: over and kick her ass. Who’s just
text: been pushed to the front of the
dialog: line on this one? See, women say
dialog: they hate it when you get all
dialog: territorial and protective, but
dialog: when it suits them, they tell you
dialog: you're being all unmanly and a
dialog: wimp.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: But I don’t think women want to
dialog: kill men, and if they do, they
dialog: rarely succeed. I’m sure men kill
dialog: more women. Anyway, this is
dialog: depressing. You know what?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Let’s stop talking about this.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah. When you start talking about
dialog: women and men, there’s no end.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know - it’s a skipping record.
dialog: People have been trying to figure
dialog: it out for millenniums. Every
dialog: artist has tried their hand at
dialog: it...
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: And no one’s come up with anything.
scene_heading: INT. CAFE - NIGHT 32
text: After a series of tables of interesting people and hearing
text: bits of conversations, we see Celine and Jesse sitting across
text: from each other, talking for once.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Okay. Now I’m calling my best
dialog: friend in Paris, who I’m supposed
dialog: to have lunch with in about eight
dialog: hours. Drrr! Drrr! Ring! Ring!
dialog: Pick up.
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: Pick up the phone.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Oh, right. Hello?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Allo, Vani. C’est Celine. Comment
dialog: ga va?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Bien, et toi?
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: Oh, tu sais ce qui n’est arrivé...
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, maybe we should do it in
dialog: English.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Vanessa. I’m sorry I missed lunch,
dialog: but I met a guy on the train and
dialog: got off with him in Vienna. We're
dialog: still here.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Are you crazy?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Probably.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So he’s Austrian? He lives there?
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: No, no, he’s just passing through
dialog: here too. He’s American. He goes
text: home tomorrow morning.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So why’d you get off the train with
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: He convinced me, but I think I was
text: ready after only talking to hima
dialog: short while. He was so sweet.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
text: We were in the lounge car and he
dialog: began to talk about him as a little
dialog: boy seeing his great-grandmother’s
dialog: ghost. I think that’s when I feel
dialog: for him - just the idea of this
text: little boy, full of dreams. He
dialog: trapped me.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Hmmm.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: And he’s so cute. He has really
dialog: beautiful blue eyes, nice pink
text: lips, and greasy hair. He’s kinda
dialog: tall and a little clumsy. I like
text: to feel his eyes on me when I look
text: away. And he kind of kisses like
text: an adolescent. It’s so cute.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah, we kissed. It was so
dialog: adorable. As the night went on I
dialog: began to like him more and more.
text: But I’m afraid he’s scared of me.
dialog: I told him of my story about the
text: woman killing her ex-boyfriend and
dialog: stuff. He must be thinking I’m
dialog: this manipulative, mean, dangerous
dialog: woman. I just hope he doesn’t feel
dialog: that way about me because - you
dialog: know me - I’m the most harmless
dialog: person. I just hide behind
text: angriness because it’s the only way
dialog: I’ve found to protect myself. The
dialog: only person I could ever really
dialog: hurt is myself.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I’m sure he’s not scared of you.
dialog: I’m sure he’s crazy about you.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Okay, now it’s your turn. Call
dialog: your friend.
text: Jesse puts the phone up to his ear.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Brrriiing. I usually get this
text: guy's answering machine.
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Hey, dude, what’s up?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Hey, Frank, you’re there.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So you're back? How was Madrid?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Well, it all pretty much sucked.
dialog: I’m coming back a little early.
dialog: Jodie and I finally had our long
text: overdue meltdown. The long
dialog: distance thing never seems to work,
dialog: does it? All my stupid, romantic
dialog: projections. Ugh. I was actually
dialog: only in Madrid a few days. I had
dialog: to get the hell out of there. I’ve
dialog: been wandering around Europe for
dialog: the last couple of weeks like an
dialog: idiot. I got a cheaper flight out
dialog: of Vienna that didn’t leave for a
dialog: while, but it really wasn’t that
dialog: much cheaper. I could have come
dialog: right back, but I just couldn't. I
dialog: think I wanted to just wallow for a
dialog: while. I wanted to run, but not
dialog: home. I didn’t want to see anyone
dialog: I knew. I didn’t want to talk. I
dialog: wanted to be a ghost, completely
text: anonymous.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, that’s just it. I’m
dialog: great...rapturous. I’ma real
dialog: person again. I’11 tell you why.
dialog: It’s my last night in Europe and
dialog: I’ve met someone very special. You
dialog: know how they say we are each
dialog: other’s angels and demons? Well,
dialog: she was literally this Botticelli
text: angel, waiting for me at the gate
text: back to life.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Wow...how did you meet?
dialog: 33
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: On the train. I actually saw her a
dialog: couple of hours before we ever
text: talked, as I was finding a seat.
text: She had her foot up on the seat
text: across from her and didn’t notice
text: me at all as I passed by her. Then
dialog: later, there was this weirdo couple
text: fighting near her, and she moved
dialog: back and happened to sit right
text: across the aisle from me. We began
dialog: to talk. I don’t think she really
dialog: liked me at the beginning. She is
dialog: so smart and passionate and
dialog: beautiful - I felt so unsure of
dialog: myself. I felt everything I was
dialog: saying was stupid macho stuff.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Oh, man, I wouldn’t worry. I’m
dialog: sure she was not judging you. And
dialog: by the way, she decided to sit next
dialog: to you. I’m sure she did it on
dialog: purpose. Us men are stupid. We
dialog: never understand women. They act
dialog: strange, the little I know of them.
scene_heading: EXT. ALBERTINA LEDGE - NIGHT 33
text: Celine and Jesse sit on the steps of a statue and observe the
text: fairly constant activity around them. A serious-looking guy
text: walks by carrying a bag.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: See that guy? We’ll never see him
dialog: again. That was the one moment our
text: lives intersect.
text: The guy suddenly turns and walks back the other way.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I always wonder about things like
dialog: that. Like, think of the bag he is
text: carrying. I wonder what is in it.
dialog: If you think he’s carrying a bomb
dialog: to blow up the opera because he
dialog: failed his audition for Don Juan,
text: then his serious expression becomes
text: this angry, vicious face.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: But if you imagine in his bag is a
text: present for his young, dying wife,
dialog: then he becomes this poor,
dialog: sympathetic character who you want
text: to give a big hug to.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Hmmm.
text: Celine indicates a young art-student-looking woman.
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: She's thinking about a TV show she
dialog: saw yesterday on strippers, and
dialog: even though all her friends were
text: disgusted by it, she’s thinking
dialog: about giving up her low-paying
text: office job and giving it a try.
text: A nerdy guy walks by.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: That guy over there...rejected by
dialog: Scientology. Actually flunked his
dialog: free personality test - they had no
dialog: use for him.
scene_heading: 34 EXT. ALBERTINA LEDGE - NIGHT 34
text: They sit on the ledge overlooking the lit-up opera house.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I feel like this is some dream
dialog: world we're walking through.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It’s so weird. It’s like our time
dialog: together is just ours - it’s our
dialog: own creation. It’s like, I’m in
dialog: your dream and you’re in mine.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, what we’re doing this whole
dialog: night shouldn’t officially be
dialog: happening.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Maybe that’s why this feels so
dialog: other-worldly.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: But then, the morning comes and we
text: turn into pumpkins.
dialog: 35
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Ahh. I don’t want to talk about
dialog: the morning.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: But at this point I think you’re
dialog: supposed to produce the glass
dialog: slipper and see if it fits.
text: They both laugh.
scene_heading: EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT 35
text: They are on a large docked boat, the Johann Strauss, that
text: serves as a restaurant. They are sitting at a quiet outdoor
text: table on the bow of the boat.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: And this older friend of mine said,
dialog: at the birth of his child - it was
dialog: a home birth and he was there
dialog: helping out and everything - at
dialog: that profound moment of birth, all
dialog: he could think about was death.
dialog: That he was seeing something
dialog: experience life for the first time,
text: struggling for breath, and knowing
dialog: that it was going to die someday.
text: He couldn't get it out of his head.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I think that’s why life is so
dialog: interesting - because it’s going to
dialog: end.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know. Death ups the ante being
text: alive.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It’s the same for us tonight,
dialog: though. If we knew we were going
dialog: to see each other next week, it
dialog: would not be the same energy, no?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, I know.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Do you think we will see each other
dialog: after tomorrow morning?
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t know. What do you think?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I asked you.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Hmmm. I’m thinking how...I don’t
dialog: know if I’m going to be in Europe
dialog: again anytime soon. Are you coming
dialog: to the U.S. For any reason?
text: Celine puts her head down on the table, depressed.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Oh, God, I don’t want to get into
dialog: the practical side of how we'd see
dialog: each other again. Flying. Let’s
dialog: be rational adults about this.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, uh, rational.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: We should try something different.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: It’s not so bad if tonight is our
dialog: only night. Maybe it makes it
dialog: really special.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, usually you exchange numbers
dialog: and call each other once, maybe
dialog: write each other once or twice...
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: And then the slow fizzle.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I hate that.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: There was this famous writer - I
dialog: don’t remember who - who said the
dialog: ideal relationship was two intense
dialog: years, with clean breaks, fresh
dialog: starts, friends for life, something
dialog: like that. It’s like if you knew
dialog: your relationship had to end in two
dialog: years, there would be no room for
dialog: fighting or wasted time. There
dialog: could be more love and appreciation
dialog: for one another.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s like, if everyone you met you
dialog: knew was going to die at midnight,
dialog: you would be a much more
dialog: compassionate person. I mean,
dialog: everyone’s going to die, but since
dialog: no one knows when, there’s all the
dialog: time in the world to be assholes to
dialog: one another.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Why do we think that relationships
dialog: are supposed to last forever
dialog: anyway, and that anything less is a
dialog: failure?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: But I hate the thought that we’re
dialog: just these ships passing in the
dialog: night. I think the only time I get
dialog: depressed is when I feel that life
dialog: is just this series of momentary
dialog: connections. I mean, of all the
dialog: people you’ve ever known, how many
dialog: of them are still in your life in
dialog: any way? What happened to all the
dialog: people you grew up with? Miss Van
dialog: Sickle, my bus driver in first
dialog: grade - what’s she up to? What
dialog: kind of life is she having?
text: A wandering violin player has entered the room and is playing
text: a waltz.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: But for some people, there are no
dialog: real good-byes. I think if you
dialog: have a meaningful experience with
dialog: someone else, a true communication,
dialog: they are with you forever in a way.
dialog: We are all a part of each other in
dialog: ways we'll never know.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: So it’s a deal? We’ll die in the
dialog: morning?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I think it’s the only way. I don’t
dialog: want to cheapen what’s special
dialog: about our time together. If we
dialog: push for something more, it’s like
dialog: we're trying to commodify ourselves
dialog: or something.
dialog: 36
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, no delusions. No
dialog: projections. Let’s just make the
dialog: rest of tonight great.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: And it’1l be ours forever.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: We should do some kind of special
dialog: handshake or something.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Okay.
text: They do a sort of handshake and then watch the violin player.
scene_heading: EXT. ACTIVE STREET - NIGHT 36
text: Celine and Jesse walk down a fairly busy street near some
text: nightclubs. They come across a crowd gathered around a woman
text: dancing, and the rhythmic sound of finger cymbals can be
text: heard. Sitting on the ground is a man playing a dumbek who
text: beats out a mesmerizing rhythm. Celine grabs Jesse’s arm
text: with a look of excitement and rushes toward the crowd,
text: finding a good vantage point to watch the Middle Eastern
text: dancer. The dancer performs in an exciting and unusual way
text: and elicits a positive reaction from the crowd. At the end
text: of the performance Celine places a couple of bills in the
text: tambourine that sits on the sidewalk near the dancer’s shoes.
text: Then she and Jesse proceed down the street as the crowd
text: disperses. Celine is obviously moved by the dance.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I saw a documentary on that stuff -
dialog: It’s a birth dance.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: A birth dance? How does that work?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Women used it when giving birth.
dialog: In some parts of the world they
text: still do it. The woman in labor
text: enters a tent and the women of her
text: tribe surround her and dance using
text: their torsos and pelvises, and they
dialog: encourage the birthing woman to
dialog: dance with them so as to make the
dialog: birth less painful. And after the
text: baby is born, they all dance in
dialog: celebration.
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Wow. My mom would have never gone
dialog: for that.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: But it’s a really primal dance.
dialog: They think that women have usually
dialog: done it mainly for other women as
text: some kind of fertility ritual.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: That’s cool.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It’s a beautiful thing. I like the
dialog: idea of dance as being a common
dialog: function of life, something that
dialog: everyone participates in.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I know. I heard about this old man
text: watching a bunch of young people
dialog: dancing. He said, “How beautiful.
text: They are trying to shake off their
dialog: genitals and become angels.”
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: But, uh, just one question back
dialog: there. When the women are being
dialog: all spiritual and dancing for the
dialog: gods and themselves and stuff,
dialog: where are the men? Out food
dialog: gathering? Just not allowed? See,
dialog: Y'all don’t need us?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Men are lucky we don’t bite off
dialog: their heads after mating. Certain
dialog: insects do that, you know - spiders
dialog: and stuff. We, at least, let you
dialog: live. What are you complaining
dialog: about?
text: She laughs as he jumps on her words.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: You're officially kidding, but you
dialog: keep bringing that up. There is
dialog: something to that.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: No, no, no. Okay, speaking
dialog: seriously here.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: I mean, I feel this pressure to be
dialog: a strong and independent icon of
dialog: womanhood and not have it look like
dialog: my life is only revolving around
dialog: some guy, but the love of a man and
dialog: returning that love means a lot to
dialog: me. I always make fun of it and
dialog: stuff, but isn’t everything we're
dialog: doing in life a way to be loved a
dialog: little more or something?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Sometimes I dream of being a good
dialog: father and a good husband.
dialog: Sometimes that feels really close,
dialog: but other times it just seems
dialog: silly, and that it would ruin my
dialog: life. It’s not that I have a fear
dialog: of commitment or I’m incapable of
dialog: loving or caring about someone
dialog: else, because I can. It’s just
dialog: that if I’m totally honest with
dialog: myself, I’d rather die knowing that
dialog: I was really good at something,
dialog: that I was special or had excelled
dialog: in some way, than to have only been
dialog: in a really nice, caring
dialog: relationship.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: You know, I had worked for this
dialog: older man, and once he told me that
dialog: he had spent all his life thinking
dialog: about his career and his work, and
dialog: how he was fifty-two and it
dialog: suddenly struck him that he had
dialog: never really given anything of
dialog: himself, that his life was for no
text: one and nothing. He was almost
text: crying saying this.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I really believe that if there’s
dialog: any kind of god, he wouldn’t be in
dialog: any one of us - not you, not me -
dialog: but just this space in between. If
dialog: there’s some magic in this world,
dialog: it must be in the attempt of
text: understanding someone else, sharing
dialog: something, even if it’s almost
dialog: impossible to succeed. But who
dialog: cares - the answer must be in the
dialog: attempt.
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: 64.
scene_heading: INT. DANCE CLUB - NIGHT 37
text: They enter a small, almost desolate disco where on couple is
text: dancing and a few others are sitting around - the up-all-
text: night crowd. They split up and he goes over to the BARTENDER
text: and starts talking to him, pleading with him. She goes over
text: to an empty table and subtly takes two glasses. Across the
text: room, he’s made a little headway with the gruff, older
text: bartender, who eventually relents and hands him a bottle of
text: wine. Suddenly Lou Christie’s “Lightnin’ Strikes” comes over
text: the speakers and Jesse hams it up as he crosses the dance
text: floor on his way back to meet her at the door. He tries to
dialog: get into it and has a little success.
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - NIGHT 38
text: Later, they are sitting in a remote area of the park, pouring
text: glasses from their bottle of wine.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So often in my life I’ve been with
dialog: people and shared beautiful moments
dialog: like traveling or staying up all
text: night and watching the sunrise, and
dialog: I knew it was a special moment, but
dialog: something was always wrong. I
dialog: wished I'd been with someone else.
dialog: I knew that what I was feeling -
dialog: exactly what was so important to me
dialog: - they didn’t understand. But I’m
dialog: happy to be with you. You couldn’t
dialog: possibly know why a night like this
dialog: is so important to my life right
dialog: now, but it is. I think this is a
dialog: great morning.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: It is a great morning.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Do you think we'd have other
dialog: mornings like this?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What about our vow?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, I know.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I've had those same feelings of
dialog: wishing someone wasn’t there, but I
dialog: think it’s myself I’d like to get
dialog: away from.
text: She looks up at him.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve never been anywhere I haven’t
dialog: been. I’ve never had a kiss when I
dialog: wasn’t one of the kissers. I’ve
dialog: never been to the movies when I
text: wasn’t in the audience or gone out
dialog: bowling when I wasn’t around making
dialog: some stupid joke.
text: She smiles, not really taking him seriously.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: No, really, I think that’s why so
dialog: Many people hate themselves. I
dialog: mean if we got married, after a few
dialog: years, you'd hate a lot of my
dialog: mannerisms, the way I drink a
dialog: little too much when I’m insecure,
dialog: the way I tell the same ridiculous,
dialog: pseudo-intellectual ideas to every
dialog: couple we have over to dinner. But
dialog: you see, I’ve already heard all my
dialog: stupid stories, so of course I’m
dialog: sick of myself. But our time here
text: has been completely out of time.
dialog: Being with you has made me feel
dialog: like I am someone else. I haven't
dialog: had my past around to constantly
dialog: drown me. The only other way to
dialog: lose yourself like this is with
dialog: drugs, or alcohol, dancing...stuff
dialog: like that.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Fucking...
text: He just looks up at her, smiling, a little surprised.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, fucking.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Do you know what I want?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: To be kisses.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I can do that.
dialog: 65.
dialog: 66.
text: He gets up and kisses her, and tries to take it a little
dialog: further.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I have to say something stupid.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: It’s very stupid.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I don’t think we should sleep
dialog: together. I want to, but since
dialog: we're not going to see each other
dialog: again, it’1ll make me feel bad.
dialog: I‘’1l wonder who else you're with.
dialog: I'll miss you. I know it’s not
dialog: very adult...maybe it’s a female
dialog: thing...I can’t help it.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, we’ll see each other again.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No. I don’t want you to break our
dialog: vow just so you can get laid.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t want to just get laid. I
dialog: want to have sex with you. We're
dialog: going to die in the morning, right?
dialog: I think we should.
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: No. Then it’s like some male
dialog: fantasy - meet a French girl on a
dialog: train, fuck her, never see her
dialog: again, and have a great story to
dialog: tell. I don’t want to be a great
dialog: story. I don’t want our great
dialog: evening to have just been for that.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, let’s not have sex.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: You don’t want to see me again?
dialog: 39
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: No, of course I do. I mean, fuck,
dialog: if I was asked right now to marry
dialog: you or never see you again, I would
dialog: Marry you. I mean, maybe that’s a
dialog: lot of romantic crap. But people
dialog: have gotten married for a lot less.
dialog: I think we’d have as good a chance
dialog: as anyone else. Do you want to
dialog: sleep with me?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Well, actually I already decided to
dialog: sleep with you when I got off the
dialog: train. Now that we've talked so
dialog: much I don’t know anymore. Why do
dialog: I make everything so complicated?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I don’t know.
text: They begin making out as we see the first light in the sky.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - EARLY MORNING 39
text: They are walking along slowly, awkwardly, each a little in
dialog: their own world.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What’s the first thing you’re going
dialog: to do when you get back to Paris?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Call my parents. What about you?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I will go pick up my dog. He’s
dialog: with a buddy of mine.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Ahh. I love dogs.
speaker_heading: JESSE
text: Oh, shit - we’re back in real time.
speaker_heading: CELINE
text: It’s awful. I can’t stand it.
text: For the last few moments we’ve been hearing the sound of a
text: harpsichord far in the distance.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Do you hear that?
dialog: 40
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah...What is that...a
dialog: harpsichord?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Let’s go see where the hell that’s
dialog: coming from.
text: They walk toward the baroque sounds. As they get closer, the
text: music gets louder. They finally pinpoint the source.
text: Through a small street-level window they see a guy ina
text: basement room playing away at his harpsichord. The
text: HARPSICHORD PLAYER’s entire room is decorated in a
text: seventeenth-to eightenth-century fashion with wood-plank
text: floors, old furniture, and paintings. Together with the
text: beautiful and intense music, it is a stunning view - a living
text: portrait. They sort of look at each other occasionally but
text: say nothing. Celine and Jesse both begin to feel awkward at
text: their Peeping Tom status now that the music is over, and they
text: walk off quietly. Jesse takes her hand.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: Can you dance to a harpsichord?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I don’t know. Maybe.
text: They dance a little on the sidewalk.
scene_heading: EXT. ALBERTINA LEDGE - EARLY MORNING 40
text: They sit with their heads back on a bench, staring up at the
text: early-morning clouds.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: When you talked earlier about after
dialog: a few years how a couple would
text: begin to hate each other by
dialog: anticipating their reactions or
text: getting tired of their mannerisms,
dialog: I think it would be the opposite
dialog: with me. I think I can fall in
dialog: love when I know everything about
dialog: him - how he’s going to part his
dialog: hair, or what shirt he’s going to
dialog: wear that day, knowing the exact
dialog: story he would tell in a given
dialog: situation. I’m sure that’s when
dialog: I'd know I’m really in love.
text: Jesse just smiles, looks at her, and then slowly looks back
text: up at the sky.
dialog: 4l
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: (silly voice)
dialog: The years shall run like rabbits...
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Nothing. I have this great
dialog: recording of Dylan Thomas reading
dialog: this W.H. Auden poem. He has this
dialog: great voice. It was like...
dialog: (silly voice)
dialog: “But all the clocks in the city
text: Began to whirr and chime:
dialog: O let not Time deceive you,
dialog: You cannot conquer Time...
dialog: “In headaches and in worry
text: Vaguely life leaks away,
dialog: And Time will have his fancy
dialog: To-morrow or to-day.”
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN STATION - DAWN 41
text: She has retrieved her bag from the locker, and they are
text: walking along the train toward her car. They seem
text: vulnerable, even shy, as they both finally face the
dialog: inevitable.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: So you know what bus you’re taking
dialog: to the airport?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, no problem.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I guess this is it, no?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yep. I really...you know.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I know. Me too.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: You lied to me, you know.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: What do you mean?
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: You told me that our time together
dialog: would someday make me happier with
dialog: my future husband, but now I’11
dialog: wonder even more.
text: Neither says anything for an extended moment.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: Be happy, okay? Work hard and have
dialog: fun with everything you’re doing.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I will. And good luck with school
dialog: and everything.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I hate this.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: I know. I think the train is about
dialog: to leave.
text: They look into each other’s eyes. Jesse reaches out for
text: Celine’s hand and clasps it tightly. They smile, knowing
text: that they’ve changed in unexpected ways, and then embrace
text: tenderly for several moments. They part, and Celine turns
text: suddenly and walks up the stairs to her train car. As she
text: reaches the top step she hesitates, turns, and looks back and
text: Jesse, who's still staring at her. He signals for her to
text: hold on a second.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Hey, everything we were saying is
dialog: bullshit. This is all stupid - I
dialog: don’t want to do it.
text: She laughs.
speaker_heading: JESSE (CONT'D)
dialog: And I didn’t lie to you. I/’11
dialog: prove it.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: I‘11l come with you.
text: Celine is almost laughing.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No. You'll drive me crazy. You
dialog: don’t speak French. I’d have to
dialog: completely take care of you.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: CELINE (CONT'D)
dialog: It would be a big mistake.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: But perhaps we should meet in five
dialog: years.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yeah, think so? Five years?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: No, no. Five years is too long.
dialog: It would be more like a sociology
dialog: experiment. How about one year?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Yes, one year. One year? How
dialog: about six months?
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: But it will be freezing.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Okay, we can meet here and then go
text: somewhere else.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Okay. But is that six months from
dialog: now or last night?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Last night. Okay. Six months from
dialog: last night. December sixteenth,
text: six o’clock in the evening, track
dialog: eleven. It’s a train ride for you,
dialog: but I got to fly over. But, hey,
dialog: I’l1l be here.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Good. And we’re not going to write
dialog: or call or anything right?
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Right. But six months.
text: They laugh at themselves and give a quick kiss before
dialog: parting.
speaker_heading: CELINE
dialog: Good-bye.
speaker_heading: JESSE
dialog: Bye.
text: They part and Celine disappears into the train.
dialog: 42
dialog: 72.
scene_heading: INT/EXT. MORNING MONTAGE 42
text: Celine finds her way to a seat. Jesse gets his stuff out of
text: his locker and begins walking. As her train slowly pulls out
text: of the station, we hear the harpsichord and see a series of
text: shots of many of the locations Celine and Jesse inhabited the
text: night before. In the early-morning light these places are
text: now somehow different. Even though there is little human
text: presence at this time of the morning, the transformation has
text: begun. We see Jesse getting situated on his bus to the
text: airport. We then see the park where they danced, sang, and
text: stared up at the sky. A very old lady walks slowly across
text: the grass. Celine is settled on the train and reading. She
text: looks up from her book and just stares out the window at the
text: landscape going by.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
dialog: 
