speaker_heading: BEING HUMAN
dialog: Written by
dialog: Bill Forsyth
speaker_heading: THIRD DRAFT
dialog: January, 1992
scene_heading: WARNER BROS. INC. © 1992
scene_heading: 4000 Warner Boulevard WARNER BROS. INC.
dialog: Burbank, California 91522 All Rights Reserved
text: "... and as he stared at the sky and listened to a cow
text: mooing almost dreamily in a distant village, he tried to
dialog: understand what it all meant -- the sky, and the fields,
text: and the humming telegraph pole; he felt that he was just
text: at the point of understanding it when his head started to
text: spin and the lucid languor of the moment became
dialog: intolerable..."
dialog: Vladimir Nabokov
text: In this script there are six main characters who inhabit
dialog: different periods of time, from pre-history to the
dialog: present day. But there is just one story. Because we
dialog: blend into one developing narrative the lives that we
dialog: show.
text: There is no suggestion of time travel or re-incarnation
dialog: or any other tricksy or mystic device. We can do in real
dialog: time and with real characters what other movies strive to
dialog: do with immortal time travellers and ghosts. Our story
dialog: is thoroughly based in reality and the magic we are
text: dealing with is real, human magic.
dialog: In moving from one character to the next everything will
dialog: change; supporting characters, setting, period. But the
dialog: essential situation of our hero of the moment will relate
text: to the one before and the one following.
dialog: The magic will be in the transitions, in leaving one
text: character and advancing the film through hundreds or
dialog: thousands of years to find our next hero in tantalizingly
dialog: similar human circumstances. The effect of these transi-
dialog: tions across space and time, will let the audience grasp
dialog: the simple truth behind our story; that we are all in it
dialog: together.
dialog: The key to allowing the audience to enjoy this human
text: connection at the heart of the film is that one actor
dialog: will play the six individuals. The feeling will be of
text: the endless, glorious playing and replaying of the simple
dialog: drama of being alive.
text: We end the film with a present-day hero, but by that time
dialog: we will be seeing this modern man in an entirely fresh
text: light, feeling his kinship with the caveman and the slave
text: and the others who have gone before. The resolution of
text: his contemporary story is theirs also. By then perhaps,
dialog: we will be able to see ourselves in this novel perspec-
dialog: tive, too.
text: And the structure of the film itself has the thrill of
dialog: novelty. It has never before been used in cinema.
dialog: Never. Our six characters and their stories connect in
text: many different ways, some obvious, others vague, tanta-
text: lizing threads. Even global connections are made, as the
text: planet itself and all its people, come and go in the
dialog: story. For the audience the game of making the connec-
dialog: tions, feeling the bonds, even inventing or discovering
dialog: associations of their own, will be endless in this big-
dialog: gest of stories, smallest of stories. It is truly a new
dialog: cinematic experience. *
dialog: *
speaker_heading: BEING HUMAN
text: Hector is a family man. He and his woman and two
text: children live near the ocean in a sheltered fold on a
text: hillside, a shallow cave given protection at its entrance
text: by a covering of branches and brush. Just inside a small
text: fire smoulders permanently, a few times a day encouraged
dialog: into life for cooking or warmth. If it ever went out it
text: would be a catastrophe, so it remains a smouldering com-
text: fort and a constant preoccupation for the whole family.
text: Hector doesn't know that his name is Hector. It is
dialog: simply a convenience to help us tell his story. The idea
dialog: of individual names is an imaginative leap that has not
dialog: yet been made by mankind when we first meet him. Hector
text: is living out his life 4000 years before the birth of
dialog: Christ, in a reasonably temperate zone of the planet. In
dialog: his entire life Hector will traverse no more than ten
text: square miles of it.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
speaker_heading: FIRST IMAGE
text: is the reflection of Hector's face in a rock pool. The
text: image suddenly fragments. Hector is enjoying himself,
text: deflecting his stream of pee now and then so that his
text: image reforms itself and then is disrupted again. When
text: he is finished, a trace of vanity makes him bend down
text: closer to his reflection. He strokes his long hair and
text: fingers a blemish on his cheek.
text: Then he is aware of another presence. He sharply turns.
text: Some way off a solitary figure stands on the rise of some
text: rocks, not afraid to show itself. Hector calls out.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Go back home... leave me alone...
text: We see that the figure is a young BOY, Hector's son. The
text: Boy thinks about it for a moment, before turning and
text: disappearing behind the rocks.
scene_heading: 1-4 TITLE SCENES 1-4
text: The small fire that never goes out has been enlarged to
text: cook the day's meal. Beyond the fire on a rock shelf
text: HECTOR plays with his children, a GIRL of six and Boy of
text: eight. It is the usual rough romp that fathers indulge
text: in, but in 4000 BC possibly rougher than normal. Hector
text: is acting the part of some trapped wild animal, lashing
text: out at the hunters surrounding him. But in his act of
text: wild rage he gets carried away. He picks up his son and
text: throws him hard, much too hard, on his back.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 2. *
scene_heading: 1-4 CONTINUED: 1-4
text: The Boy tumbles down from the shelf to the cave floor at
text: his mother, DEIRDRE's feet, howling in pain. Deidre
text: scowls at Hector. If the gesture had been invented he
text: would probably shrug his shoulders. The Boy howls on.
text: Hector kneels beside his daughter, absorbed in her antics
text: as she sleeps. She is a vivid dreamer. Her whole little
text: form wriggles and contorts in response to the fantasy
text: unspooling in her head. She emits unearthly nighttime
text: noises, squeals and giggles and moans. Hector is fasci-
dialog: nated. Where has his daughter gone? Who is this strange
text: wild creature that has taken her form, lying beside him?
text: Hector's daughter delights him. And while Hector watches
text: his daughter, Deirdre from their bed watches Hector.
text: It is almost dawn, the cave is quiet and the fire has
text: diminished. By its light we see Deirdre and Hector making
text: love, on their bed of dried grass and skins. It's diffi-
dialog: cult to say what their lovemaking might look like. What
dialog: has 6000 years done to that art? We will think about it.
text: On the far side of the cave we see the sleeping children.
text: As we MOVE CLOSER we see that they are far from sleep.
text: Two sets of bright eyes peek out from under their cover.
text: We CUT BETWEEN them, the loving parents and the watching,
dialog: learning children.
text: Hector is arguing with his son, just outside their cave.
text: The Boy wants to go foraging with him again.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No... stay here... stay!
text: Hector takes a few steps. The Boy follows.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No... go back... go away...
text: Hector walks on again, taking big, angry father strides.
text: The Boy stubbornly tags along at a safe distance. Hector
text: walks on for some time before turning on him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Leave me alone! Stay here...
dialog: Stay!
text: There is real anger in his voice. The Boy wisely
text: retreats to the cave. As Hector turns to continue his
text: walk alone he see Deirdre looking at him accusingly from
text: the entrance. She holds out her arms ready to comfort
text: the Boy rejected by his father. Hector is in the
text: classic, timeless, no-win situation and he knows it.
text: With a sigh of frustration he heads for the beach.
dialog: 3. *
scene_heading: 5 EXT. SHORE - DAY 5
text: Hector is foraging on the shoreline, gathering cockles,
text: seaweeds, mussels, crabs, anything edible. He splashes
text: in the shallows, hoarding the food in a roughly-woven
text: bag. Every now and then he will suck a cockle from its
text: shell or crunch on a particularly tasty piece of seaweed.
text: Hector looks about 30 years old. This is advanced middle
text: age for his times and it shows. He has a heavy cold and
text: an irritating hack in his throat. In a similar condition
dialog: a modern individual would spend two or three pleasantly
text: drugged days in bed, perhaps attempting a little light
text: paperwork propped up on some pillows.
text: The sun is warming the day. Hector sits on a rock, sur-
text: veying his world. He seems very much a part of it. He
text: watches some wading seabirds nearby. Like him they are
text: nosing around the margins of low tide for food. He
dialog: smiles. In another season they or their eggs will pro-
text: vide a meal or two. There is a strange atmosphere of
text: appropriateness in the scene, Hector seems such an inte-
dialog: gral part of it. The easy fit of the man in his land-
text: scape strikes us. Hector belongs to it in ways that a
dialog: present-day hunter or holiday maker, or even naturalist,
text: never could. Also, there is an odd sense of the world
text: being rather empty.
text: Whether the larger world is round or flat, spinning or
text: orbiting, Hector neither knows nor cares. He knows
text: simple things. Cold and hunger. He knows warmth, rough
text: comfort and companionship. His family and the safety of
dialog: their cave.
text: Further along the shore Hector drops his bag and straigh-
text: tens himself, easing the ache in his back. Then some-
text: thing disturbs him. From behind a distant headland a
text: smudge of smoke trails into the sky. Hector picks up his
text: bag and runs. He knows where he is going. He reaches a
text: vantage point on some rocks. He steadies himself and
text: gazes hard out to sea. We can feel the strain in his
text: eyes as he tries to detect any hint of threat in the
text: glinting water. Then his jaw drops in fear. Around the
text: edge of the headland two dark shapes proceed in regular
text: motion. Their steady progress is full of menace. Oar-
text: driven boats, slowly, insistently making their way into
text: Hector's bay. He jumps from the rocks and runs up the
text: beach toward the cave. One thing else that Hector knows
text: is fear, blind, gut-turning fear.
scene_heading: 6 EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY 6
text: Hector is a small figure in the landscape now, racing up
text: the steep slope in the direction of his home.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 4. *
scene_heading: 6 CONTINUED: 6
text: He stops for breath and to look back on the bay. The
text: shapes are distinct now, two large open boats, roughly
text: made but menacingly adequate for their purpose, coastal
text: raiding. The boats are nearing the beach now and figures
text: can be seen preparing to land. Hector gathers enough of
text: his wits and strength to continue his race up the
text: hillside.
scene_heading: 7 INT. HECTOR'S CAVE - DAY 7
text: Inside, his family are in a state of panic. They seem to
dialog: have prepared for this moment. Through their agitation
text: there is purpose. They gather bits and pieces to carry
text: with them in their flight. Hector's children are attemp-
text: ting to take too much. Hector shouts instructions to
text: them as he puts more wood on the fire. It must stay
text: burning in their absence.
text: Hector gathers his family together and they leave the
dialog: cave.
scene_heading: 8 EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY 8
text: Hector shoves his children in one direction up the slope
text: further into the hills. His woman runs off the other
text: way. A hasty, confused argument takes place.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Up the hill!
speaker_heading: DEIRDRE
text: No, down onto the other beach.
dialog: The little ones can't take the
dialog: hill. Neither can I.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Up the hill! They're down there
dialog: already. I saw them!
speaker_heading: DEIRDRE
dialog: You're wrong!
text: She runs off down the slope. Hector has no choice but to
text: follow her, herding the children in front of him.
text: Deirdre runs on, heading for the lower slope and the cover
text: of some trees. Then from these same trees she sees the
text: figures of the RAIDERS coming toward her. She turns,
text: running back up the hill. Hector and the children also
text: turn and run back the way they have come, by now dropping
text: precious bits of food and other possessions. The Raiders
text: are running strongly, five or six of them.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 5. *
scene_heading: 8 CONTINUED: 8
text: The little Girl starts to go back for a precious toy she
text: has dropped. Hector picks her up and carries her off
text: over his shoulder. The Boy follows.
text: Deirdre is trailing behind them. She was right. She
text: doesn't have the stamina for the hill. Hector looks back
text: and sees the Raiders gaining on her. His face is a con-
text: fusion of fear and indecision. He almost stops, as if to
text: go back and help her, but then changes his mind and runs
text: off once again with the children. Deirdre is by now
text: throwing the things she is carrying at her pursuers,
text: hoping that they will stop to retrieve them and allow her
text: to gain some ground. But they don't stop and the effort
dialog: tires her even more.
text: She attempts one final dash and then, all of her energy
text: gone, she stops in her tracks and waits for her pursuers.
text: the Raiders break their run also and trot and finally
text: walk, the distance between them and Deirdre.
text: Hector is watching all of this over his shoulder, still
text: running. He stops for a moment to watch Deirdre being
text: finally surrounded by the Raiders. Then he runs on.
scene_heading: 9 EXT. VALLEY - DAY 9
text: Hector is tiring, too. With the Girl still awkwardly
text: clinging to his neck he is picking his way up a steep
text: slope, half-dragging the Boy up behind him. He stops
text: for a breath and sees the raiders moving into the
text: valley below. In a moment of utter panic he lets go of
text: his son, drops the Girl from his shoulder, and runs on
text: alone. We can sense the moment of release in his
text: unburdened flight. But it doesn't last long. Some way
text: up the slope he stops and turns. He sees his children,
text: only now beginning to work out what has happened, and
text: the raiders below. He can't do it. Even as the Girl
text: calls to him he is running back down the hill, feeling
text: the first stab of a guilt that will never leave him.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Come back, Dada...
scene_heading: 10 EXT. VALLEY - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY 10
text: Hector and the children have reached the safety of a
text: small valley higher up in the hills. The raiders have
text: been slowed down by their capture of Deirdre. Hector
text: is hoisting his two children into the lower branches of
text: a solitary tree on the hillside. He coaxes them up into
text: the higher branches.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 6.
scene_heading: 10 CONTINUED: 10
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I'm hungry.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Don't move from here. I'll come
dialog: for you in the morning. There's
dialog: no food. Try and sleep in the
dialog: branches. Don't cry. Don't make
text: a noise.
text: Hector moves off, looking back to his children in the
text: tree. They too gaze anxiously at him. They don't wave.
text: Maybe waving hasn't been invented yet. Hector heads off
text: alone, higher into the hills.
scene_heading: 11 EXT. ROCKS - DUSK 11
text: It is dusk now. We find Hector waking from a fitful
text: sleep behind some rocks. He sits up and takes in his
text: surroundings. His face hardens as awareness of his pre-
text: dicament returns. He stands up and then crouching low,
text: moves off down the hill.
scene_heading: 12 EXT. VALLEY - DUSK 12
text: Hector has returned to the area of the tree. He slows
text: down some distance away and just in time. He sees a
text: figure standing beneath the tree. He moves forward to
text: the protection of some rocks, and watches. He is close
text: enough to hear the voice of the solitary Raider, although
text: he doesn't understand the words. The Raider looks up
text: into the branches and talks in a friendly, persuasive
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: RAIDER
dialog: It's too cold to spend all night
dialog: up there. We've got a fire at the
dialog: beach. Food, too.
text: There is no response from the tree. The Raider coaxes
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: RAIDER
dialog: Come on! Your mother's down
text: there. She's happy... she's warm,
dialog: too... and full... she wants to
dialog: see you... she sent me...
text: His friendly tone of voice has an effect. There is
text: movement in the branches. Hector can see the dark shapes
text: of his two children clambering down. The Raider
text: stretches out his arms and helps the Boy to the ground.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 7.
scene_heading: 12 CONTINUED: 12
text: Then he reaches up for the Girl, catches her as she drops
text: and keeps her in his arms. He laughs in a comforting
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: RAIDER
dialog: That was easy, eh? You're half
dialog: asleep already, little girl. I'll
dialog: carry you.
text: Hector watches the Raider and his children move slowly
text: off, down the hillside, the Raider carrying the Girl in
text: one arm and holding the Boy's hand. They almost look
text: like a family.
scene_heading: 13 EXT. BEACH - NIGHT 13
text: It is fully dark now. On the beach the Raiders have set
text: up a comfortable camp with a large fire. We are still
text: with Hector. He has come down from his bleak hiding
text: place in the hills. The smell of fire and food and con-
dialog: cern for his family, have drawn him here. He is hiding
text: somewhere way off from the camp, but close enough to
dialog: observe it.
text: What he sees disturbs him, but for odd reasons. His
text: family appear to be happily integrated with the Raiders.
text: His two children have become fast friends with the man
text: who coaxed them from the tree. His woman is with a
text: larger group closer to the fire. They are playfully
text: attempting to communicate with her, and although still a
text: little timid, she is smiling. There is no hint of bar- *
dialog: barity, rape or abuse. That was not the intention of the
text: Raiders. To them, a fertile woman and two healthy
dialog: children are as gold will be to plunderers of later ages.
text: For their part, the family have to accept the situation.
dialog: Food and shelter are the best that life can offer.
text: Painfully, Hector takes in the reality of the scene. His
text: family have been stolen from him, plain and simple. In
dialog: the morning they will be gone, out to sea and round the
text: headland forever. He watches them for a while longer,
text: then it becomes too painful. He retreats into the dark-
text: ness and up into the empty hills again.
scene_heading: 14 EXT. ROCK SHELTER - NIGHT 14
text: Hector spends a long, cold night alone, squatting in a
text: narrow crevice in the rocks. He doesn't sleep, or even
text: attempt to close his eyes. He stares into the darkness.
dialog: There is nothing in the world to comfort him, no phi-
dialog: losophy or religion, no friend to run to. This night he
dialog: is utterly alone.
dialog: 8.
scene_heading: 15 EXT. ROCKS - MORNING 15
text: In the morning it is lightly raining. Hector stands in
text: the drizzle outside the shelter. It seems to revive him,
text: refresh him, even comfort him. A sign, however meager,
text: that life goes on. Then Hector trots off in the direc-
dialog: tion of the shore. There is not much else that he can
dialog: do.
scene_heading: 16 EXT. BEACH - DAY 16
text: The Raiders are loading up their boats, wading back and
text: forth from the shoreline. Hector watches from cover.
text: His family are already on one of the boats, awaiting *
text: whatever lies ahead, too afraid to betray real emotion. *
text: The last of the Raiders on shore wade out the short dis-
text: tance to the boats. Hector watches these moments of
text: departure, watches the faces of his family.
text: Hector makes his move. In a mad act he breaks cover and *
text: runs down toward the departing boats. The last Raiders
text: are climbing aboard. Hector charges at full speed to the
text: water's edge. He screams agonizingly at the Raiders and
text: impotently starts throwing stones at them. The Raiders
text: all look at him. The LEADER is impudently brushing
text: Hector's missiles aside, like so many flies and smiling.
text: Suddenly Hector's rage and energy leave him. He stands
text: looking at the Raiders and they look at him, for a long
text: moment. The Raiders are all young men, hardly into their
dialog: twenties, and nowadays might resemble something like a *
text: motorcycle gang. But in Hector's time they are men in
text: the full prime of life. They begin to laugh and exchange
text: remarks about Hector. He returns their looks fiercely.
text: His woman and children sit on the boat, frozen in fear. *
text: The Leader eventually turns from Hector, still smiling
text: and gives an order. The men lift their oars and prepare
text: to leave. Then an older man stands up in the other boat.
text: He calls over to the Leader, nodding in the direction of
text: Hector. Hector doesn't know what they are saying, but
text: they have an intense exchange, obviously centered on him.
text: The older man seems to be an adviser, a priest or wise
text: man, although he's still only about thirty years old.
text: The Leader listens to him intently. The PRIEST talks and
text: points to the cliffs. The Leader looks there and nods
text: his head. He gives some instructions to his men. Hector
text: stands, bemused. Six or so of the Raiders leave the
text: boats, wade ashore and without any resistance from him,
text: take hold of Hector. Hector's children instictively rise *
text: as if to defend their father, but Deirdre, despite her *
text: own feelings, wisely holds them back. *
dialog: 9.
scene_heading: 17 EXT. CLIFFS - DAY 17
text: Hector's hands have been bound with rope. He is being
text: led up to the top of the cliffs. The Priest and the
text: Leader walk on ahead, still talking intensely.
text: At the top of the cliff the bay and the boats and the
text: wide sea are stretched out beneath them. The Priest, as
text: they arrive, becomes excited. He points to a pile of
text: large stones at the very summit of the headland. The
text: mound of stones is obviously man-made.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: I told you! I knew they did it
dialog: around here! Ask him...
text: The Leader moves closer to Hector and talks to him in a
text: friendly, reasoning tone.
speaker_heading: LEADER
dialog: What do we do? Do we throw you
dialog: over, is that the idea?
text: Hector doesn't understand. He looks at him blankly.
speaker_heading: LEADER
dialog: He wants me to throw you over.
dialog: What does it do? Does it help the
dialog: sun? Should I throw you over?
text: The Leader tries to help Hector understand by miming the
text: act of throwing him off the cliff. Hector doesn't know
dialog: how to respond.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: I tell you, it's one man, one
dialog: stone. It'll help the voyage.
text: The Leader is unsure. He walks around the pile of
text: stones, checking it out from all sides as if it was some
text: infernal machine that he didn't know the workings of. He
text: squats down and squints through it to the watery sun
text: emerging from the clouds far out to sea. He looks across
text: to Hector, now sitting on the grass. The Leader sits
text: down beside him. They sit together like friends. The
text: ageless intimacy of sacrificer and victim.
speaker_heading: LEADER
dialog: What's it got to do with the sun?
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: I don't know, yet.
text: The Leader looks at Hector. Then he makes up his mind.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 10.
scene_heading: 17 CONTINUED: 17
speaker_heading: LEADER
dialog: No. It's too much of a risk.
dialog: Just add a stone to the pile. Let
dialog: him go. That's the best we can
dialog: do. Let's go.
text: With that, he stands up. The Priest, with some sense of
text: ceremony, looks around for a large stone, picks one up
text: and places it on top of the pile. He waits for a moment,
text: almost as if he expects some consequence of his action.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: It's meaningless, without him
text: going over the cliff.
text: The Leader strides off back toward the beach. The others
text: follow him, giving a final look or smile to Hector, apart
text: from the Priest, who looks him up and down, regretting
text: that he is not by now a corpse in the ocean. Hector
text: watches them go, too shocked still to react in any mean-
text: ingful way. He stands alone, trying to unpick the rope
text: that binds his hands.
text: When they are some distance from him, Hector starts to
text: follow them, at first running to catch up and then simply
text: trotting after them. The Raiders are aware of him behind
text: them. The Leader eventually stops and calls to Hector.
speaker_heading: LEADER
dialog: Off you go. We don't want you.
text: He turns from Hector and moves on. Hector persists in
text: following them. They are his only connection now with
dialog: anything that thinks or feels in the world. His link
text: with them is all that is left. Again and again the
text: Leader stops to shoo Hector away, but Hector dumbly tags
text: along behind.
scene_heading: 18 EXT. BEACH - DAY 18
text: The Raiders wade out to the waiting boats. Hector
text: follows to the very water's edge, then stands and bleakly
text: watches them. The Raiders prepare to move off. Hector
text: is an embarrassment to them now. At the last moment the
text: Leader gives a brusque order to one of his men. The man
text: clambers out of the boat and wades ashore again,
text: carrying a large flint-bladed knife. He comes out of the
text: water and walks up to Hector. Hector is beyond any form
text: of reaction. He will take whatever is offered to him.
text: The man comes close, the knife held ready. He stands in
text: front of Hector for a moment. On the boat, Hector's
text: family are tense with fear for his life.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 11.
scene_heading: 18 CONTINUED: 18
text: Then the tense moment passes, as the man grunts and nods
text: at Hector's hands, still bound with rope. Hector under-
text: stands. He lifts his hands and the man with some effort
text: hacks through the rough hemp. Then he turns and wades
text: back to the boat.
text: As the man clambers aboard the Leader speaks to him. The
text: man stops, drops back into the water, and returns to
text: Hector on the shore. He offers Hector the cut piece of
text: rope, a weird gesture of conciliation. He even smiles.
text: Hector refuses the gift. The man stands sheepishly for a
text: moment, then drops the rope at Hector's feet and wades
text: back to the boat. A piece of rope in exchange for a
dialog: family.
text: Hector watches them for some time, his family and the
text: strange Raiders, as they, achingly slowly, retreat from
dialog: his view and his life.
text: At last he turns and moves up from the shoreline. He
text: goes some distance then stops, thinks for a moment, then
text: retraces his steps. He goes back to the water's edge,
text: picks up the piece of rope that bound him, and walks
dialog: off with it. It might be of some use to him.
scene_heading: 19 INT. CAVE - DAY 19
text: Hector has returned to his cave home, now cold and empty
text: of life. He is working on his instincts now, still
text: emotionally in shock. He digs around in the embers of
text: the fire. Some of the larger bits of wood still hold
text: some life. Hector bends low and starts to waft expertly *
text: and blow at the fire's remains.
text: We leave our first Hector squatting at his fire, in the
dialog: simplest act of physical survival. For him the problems
text: of emotional survival without his family lie ahead.
scene_heading: 20 INT. BATHHOUSE FURNACE - DAY 20
dialog: This is another, bigger fire. In fact we might be in
text: hell. A crude furnace blazes. Filthy, sweat-covered
text: men feed it with wood and charcoal, an endless task given
text: the ferocity of the fire. To one side of the oppressive,
text: low-ceilinged furnace room, some small boys endlessly
text: toil at two large bellows, feeding the flames with jets
text: of air. OVER the NOISE of the FURNACE someone is
text: WHISTLING, an odd human sound in an inhuman setting.
text: Shadowy figures come and go with barrow loads of wood.
text: We TILT UP TO the space above the furnace to see a mass
text: of dangerously crude clay pipes, oozing water and steam
text: at every joint.
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: 21 INT. BATHHOUSE - DAY 21
text: Above the heat and filth there is a different world. A
text: clean, beautifully tiled world of lazing figures, droning
text: conversations and resonant laughter. It is the hot room
dialog: of a bathhouse somewhere in the Roman Empire. We have
text: advanced 4000 years into the future and it shows in the
text: technology. It is men's day at the bathhouse. All of
text: the people relaxing in the water look prosperous and
text: comfortable with themselves. Slaves wait in attendance,
text: some around the edge of the pool, others in the water
text: rubbing backs and massaging shoulders. There are three
dialog: or four times as many slaves as bathers, and the proprie-
text: torial way that they look after their masters gives the
text: place the odd atmosphere of a kindergarten for over-
dialog: indulged grown-ups.
text: And then we find our Hector. He stands against the wall,
text: holding a large towel. Although clean-shaven and more
dialog: healthy-looking we can still recognize Hector, more so *
text: by the look in his eyes. There is a set to his face
text: that tells us he is a man alone, emotionally detached
text: from his surroundings. He is a personal body slave. He
text: watches his master in the pool, alert to any hint of need
dialog: that he might have.
text: Hector's master LUCINNIUS is not as relaxed as the others
text: around him. He is in anxious conversation with an older *
text: man wading beside him. We don't hear what they are saying
text: but there is enough body language to detect Lucinnius'
text: pleading and the older man's cool distraction. The older
text: man gives a final dismissive shake of his head. Hector *
text: immediately moves to the side of the pool with the towel as
text: Lucinnius climbs out of the water.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: I'm going to the cool room.
scene_heading: 22 INT. BATHHOUSE - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY 22 *
text: Hector wraps the towel around his master and follows him,
text: a look of concern on his face. Lucinnius' worries are
dialog: Hector's also.
text: Hector walks a pace behind Lucinnius through various
text: chambers of the bathhouse, passing the games area and
text: the massage room as they go. All around them slaves
text: attend to their pampered masters.
scene_heading: 23 INT. BATHHOUSE - COOL ROOM - DAY 23 *
text: After an anxious scan of the cool room, Lucinnius goes
text: towards three men occupying a marble bench.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 13.
scene_heading: 23 CONTINUED: 23
text: Hector as if by magic produces a small wooden stool for
text: his master to sit on as he joins the others. Hector then
text: moves out of earshot, but still alert to his master's
text: behavior. Lucinnius is nervous as he attempts to
text: casually join his friends. The eldest of the three
text: gives off as much of the aura of a Godfather as a naked
text: man in a towel can. The other two are deferential to
text: the older man, and treat Lucinnius with apparent con-
text: tempt. Hector watches the older man put a paternal
text: hand on Luccinius's shoulder and speak with a calm
text: smile on his face. Hector almost winces to see his
dialog: master submit to this patronizing treatment. Slave
dialog: and master exist so closely together that many of
text: their feelings are shared. More precisely, Lucinnius's
text: feelings are shared by Hector. It is a one-way exchange.
text: From morning until night, and probably in his dreams too,
text: Hector is living two lives, his own and his master's.
dialog: Here in ancient Rome is this what they call classic
dialog: schizophrenia?
text: As Luccinius stands to leave we can tell by their expres-
text: sions that the THREE MEN are open in their contempt for
text: him. Hector is quickly on his feet and by Lucinnius's
text: side as he goes. A final sarcastic remark comes from one
dialog: of the three.
speaker_heading: MAN #1
dialog: Well washed, Lucinnius.
text: Lucinnius tries to muster his dignity as they leave. *
scene_heading: 24 EXT. STREET - DAY 24
text: This is not the grandeur of Rome, but the dusty main
dialog: street of a provincial capital in Greece or Spain or
dialog: North Africa. It is difficult to tell from the people
text: because they are such a cosmopolitan crowd, faces from
dialog: every corner of the Mediterranean world. It has some-
text: thing of the atmosphere of a frontier town in a western,
text: except that here the half-finished buildings are made of
text: brick and stone.
text: Lucinnius leaves the bathhouse. Hector follows three
text: paces behind him, loaded down with the large towel, the
text: scrubber, robe, and the wooden stool. The stool goes
text: with them everywhere, in case Lucinnius has to stop in
text: the street and converse with a friend. Other notables
text: are among the street throng, their own slaves tagging
text: along behind with their little wooden stools. Some have
text: whole trains of slaves shadowing them. Human status
text: symbols. Lucinnius stops near some street stalls.
text: Hector stops beside him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 14. *
scene_heading: 24 CONTINUED: 24
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Bad omens, Hector. Bad omens.
dialog: Get me something to eat. Just
text: a mouse or two.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes.
text: Hector places the stool at Lucinnius's feet and moves off.
text: Lucinnius sits down, still absorbed in his problems.
text: Hector keeps an eye on Lucinnius as he orders the food.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Two mice... and some bread...
speaker_heading: STALLHOLDER
dialog: No mice.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: Two chicken legs, then, cold, and
dialog: the bread.
text: As Hector is given the food and pays for it, he sees
text: another man, JULIAN, approach Lucinnius, trailed by TWO
text: SLAVES. One of them is carrying a folding chair much
text: more substantial than Lucinnius's. Julian and Lucinnius
text: greet one another and sit down to talk, Lucinnius at
text: something of a height disadvantage. The Two Slaves move
text: off to one side. Lucinnius's mood has brightened since
text: the arrival of his friend. Their conversation seems open
dialog: and friendly.
text: Hector gives his master his food, and then moves to join
text: the Two Slaves, hearing a snatch of the conversation as
dialog: he goes.
speaker_heading: JULIAN
dialog: Of course you're free to call at my
dialog: house at anytime, but I was
dialog: receiving Nepos... how could I
dialog: admit you?
text: Hector offers to share his bread with the other Two
text: Slaves. They easily fall into conversation, inevitably,
dialog: about their masters.
speaker_heading: SLAVE #1
dialog: Spoiled his day, meeting your man...
text: he's been avoiding him all week.
speaker_heading: SLAVE #2
dialog: His ships have gone too, we heard.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: 24 CONTINUED: (2) 24
text: This is news to Hector.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: When did you hear?
speaker_heading: SLAVE #2
dialog: Last night. Nepos knew. Pirates.
dialog: They're sunk, he reckons. That
dialog: could finish him, eh?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: This is the worst it's been. *
speaker_heading: SLAVE #1
dialog: You'll be up for sale before you
dialog: know it!
text: This makes them laugh, Hector less so than the other
dialog: two.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: He's finished... you reckon?
text: The other two nod their heads.
speaker_heading: SLAVE #1
dialog: Yes... at the baths... I could
dialog: tell... they smelled blood...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well... if he'd pulled it off he'd
dialog: be in Rome by now...
speaker_heading: SLAVE #1
dialog: And you with him...
text: Hector nods his head thoughtfully.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: And me with him... half way home...
text: Lucinnius and his friend stand and exchange their final
text: words, unaware of the scrutiny they have been under, or
text: so used to it that they are oblivious to it. Hector
text: and the Slaves hurry to gather up the seats and take their *
text: positions behind their masters. The casualness of their
text: conversation has gone, and they resume the formality of
dialog: their roles.
scene_heading: 25 EXT. STREET - DAY 25
text: Lucinnius is eager to talk, and tosses his words over his
text: shoulder to Hector.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: 25 CONTINUED: 25
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: He's a true friend, probably the
dialog: only one I have left.
text: Hector obligingly trots a step or two closer to Lucinnius
dialog: to aid their conversation.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Will he lend you the money?
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: He was honest about it. He said
dialog: so, plain and simple. No.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: That's a problem.
text: Lucinnius unburdens himself.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: And the ships have gone... did I
dialog: tell you that?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Have they?
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Cyprian knows already. He'll
dialog: want his money back too...
text: We can see the concentration on Hector's face as he
dialog: concocts appropriate responses.
text: He has a tough occupation, being the alter ego to an
dialog: ambitious loser in one of the most competitive and
dialog: dangerous societies ever to exist. And he has to carry
text: the stool and the towel as well.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: When we get home I want you to get
dialog: some chickens... and fetch Hermas,
dialog: the diviner.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes.
scene_heading: 26 INT. HOUSE - DAY 26
text: At home, we find Lucinnius and Hector with the diviner
text: HERMAS. They are gathered around a shrine in the large
text: public room. The entrails of a chicken lie on a slab of
text: marble. Hermas prods them with a knife. He makes much
text: of the mysteries of his craft, as if it were a skill
dialog: beyond ordinary men.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 17.
scene_heading: 26 CONTINUED: 26
text: The other two peer over his shoulders. Suitably mysti-
text: fied, Lucinnius talks in a reverent low voice.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Are my ships from Sicily still
dialog: afloat...?
text: Hermas tetchily stops him.
speaker_heading: HERMAS
dialog: No, no... offer the grain first...
dialog: sprinkle it on the altar...
text: Lucinnius obeys.
speaker_heading: HERMAS
dialog: ... and we can't ask the Gods
dialog: specific questions like that...
text: it's a gentle, probing enquiry...
dialog: general questions... but let's
dialog: see.
text: He cuts into the chicken liver and prods around the in-
text: side. The other two wait in silence.
speaker_heading: HERMAS
dialog: General answer... no...
dialog: *
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: HERMAS
dialog: I mean, no. The liver says no...
text: Lucinnius objects.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Do it again... I want you to do it
dialog: again... Is it the Gods' will... *
dialog: that Cyprian... be well disposed *
dialog: towards me... in the future? *
speaker_heading: HERMAS
dialog: If you want to do it again, you
dialog: need another chicken and another
dialog: fifteen sesterces... and I'd like
dialog: the first fifteen now please.
text: Hector looks a Lucinnius, who nods reluctantly. Hector
text: opens his purse and counts out the coins for Hermas.
dialog: 18.
scene_heading: 27 INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 27
text: Hector is giving Lucinnius a soothing shoulder massage.
text: Lucinnius is still in a talking mood. His troubles
dialog: won't allow him to relax.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Cyprian loaned me half a million
dialog: to fit out these ships... I'm *
dialog: finished. Just when things were
dialog: going well... I had plans for you
dialog: too, Hector... in four or five
dialog: years I was going to make you a
dialog: free man... and then in ten years *
dialog: you'd be a citizen... you... you *
dialog: could've found your family...
dialog: brought them here... everything...
text: Hector smiles ruefully.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It sounds good.
text: Lucinnius misses the irony in Hector's voice and enthuses
dialog: about his own future generosity.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: It does, doesn't it!
text: Lucinnius is silent for a while as Hector continues to *
text: rub his shoulders.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: I shouldn't give up. I can't...
dialog: I'll visit Cyprian, first thing
dialog: tomorrow... before the others can
dialog: get to him... he's got to see
dialog: reason... I can pay him back...
dialog: sometime. It's the only chance
dialog: we have, Hector. Should I do it?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You must.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: You're right. I must.
text: This burst of resolve has relaxed Lucinnius. His tense
text: muscles yield more to Hector's fingers.
text: THALIA enters the room. She is a household slave, a
text: Nubian from Africa. She carries a lighted torch and
text: moves around the room lighting the wall lamps. Lucinnius
text: watches her.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 19.
scene_heading: 27 CONTINUED: 27
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Thalia, I think I need one of
dialog: your massages. Hector, you can *
text: finish the lamps.
text: Hector does as he is told. He takes the torch from
text: Thalia and discreetly leaves the room, hearing Lucinnius
text: as he closes the door.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Lower, Thalia.
scene_heading: 28 INT. HECTOR'S ROOM - NIGHT 28
text: Late at night, Hector is still awake. He rises from his
text: bed and quietly moves out of the room. He is careful
text: not to disturb the sleeping forms lying all around him,
text: some of them sprawled on the floor. He shares his bed-
text: room with at least eight other slaves. Privacy is a
dialog: master's privilege.
scene_heading: 29 INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 29
text: In the darkened house, Hector makes his way up some
text: stairs and along a passage. The only sound is a crack
text: or two of far-away THUNDER. At the end of the passage,
text: Hector finds a small ladder propped against the wall.
text: He climbs this, and lifts open the trap door above his
dialog: head.
scene_heading: 30 EXT. ROOF - NIGHT 30
text: Odd flashes of lightning far out to sea are the only
text: source of light as Hector moves across the flat roof.
text: In one corner he sees what he is looking for, the outline
text: of a figure resting against the low parapet wall. He
text: moves towards it. The figure speaks.
speaker_heading: FIGURE
dialog: I missed you last night.
text: It is Thalia. We can tell that they are close. Hector
text: sits down beside her.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: He kept me working until morning.
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: What's happening?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 20.
scene_heading: 30 CONTINUED: 30
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: He has no money and a lot of
dialog: enemies. If he's very clever he'll
dialog: survive... but the omens are bad...
dialog: and he's not very clever.
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: She doesn't like him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Nobody does. He's unfortunate.
dialog: You get people like that. Clumsy
dialog: and sad.
text: Thalia looks out towards the sea.
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: Why does the thunder always stay
dialog: out on the ocean?
text: Hector puts an arm around Thalia. At first it feels *
dialog: strange, their physical intimacy alongside their matter-
dialog: of-fact conversation, but gradually we understand it, the
dialog: giving and taking of comfort where it can be found, and
text: the realness of their friendship. Their stroking and
text: touching and holding becomes good to watch. We get a
dialog: feeling for what they have given one another, in stolen
text: hours and half hours, up here on the roof, the only place
dialog: where they can be themselves.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's the Gods arguing. They're
dialog: working out what to do with
dialog: Lucinnius... he'll be lying awake
dialog: down there... wondering what
dialog: they're saying about him.
text: They laugh. Far away some street DOGS BARK.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: If he goes down I'll ask for my
dialog: freedom... he owes it to me... he
dialog: said as much... you too... we
dialog: could be free...
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: Then what?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What we talk about.
text: By now he is kissing her.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: 30 CONTINUED: (2) 30
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: We talk about going home. Yours
dialog: is that way and mine is that
dialog: way... your family is that way.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I just made that up... I don't *
dialog: know which way they are... anyway *
dialog: ... you can't think like that. *
dialog: Not after so many years... *
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: It's what you talk about.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We talk about it because it can *
dialog: never happen. What we do is you *
dialog: and me...
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: I don't understand. I think you'll
dialog: leave. You're going to leave me
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Never. It's you and me now.
dialog: That's all.
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: Well. We stay here. He'll survive. *
text: Hector is silent, still kissing her. He yawns as he *
dialog: speaks.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Then I can see you every night.
dialog: I'm tired.
scene_heading: 31 INT. HECTOR'S ROOM - NIGHT 31
text: Hector is back in his bed. A figure enters the room,
text: steps over the sleeping bodies on the floor and shakes
text: him awake. Hector comes to. Lucinnius stands over him,
text: whispering.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: I can't sleep. Get me a chicken.
dialog: I want to make another sacrifice.
dialog: We'll do it ourselves.
text: Hector wearily takes himself out of bed and follows
text: Lucinnius out of the room.
dialog: 22. *
scene_heading: 32 INT. HENHOUSE - NIGHT 32
text: Hector is in the henhouse, in the dark, selecting a
text: chicken for sacrifice. He is about to leave when he
text: sees a MAN and WOMAN, arms around each other, sitting in
text: a corner. The Man looks at the white hen Hector is
dialog: holding.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Can't you find a woman, Hector...
text: Hector smiles. He isn't surprised to see them. They are
text: only doing what he and Thalia do on the roof. The Slaves
text: have their meeting places scattered all over the house.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Sorry to trouble you... just
dialog: fetching a chicken... good night
dialog: ... the roof's free...
text: The Man shakes his head with a smile. Hector leaves, the
text: sleepy chicken going to meet her fate in his arms.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Come on, miss, you can tell
text: Lucinnius his future.
scene_heading: 33 EXT. STREET - MORNING 33
text: Hector and Lucinnius are approaching the home of Cyprian.
text: Hector as usual is walking some paces behind his master,
text: and he carries a large satchel of documents. Cyprian's
text: home is a street palace. It is early in the morning, but
text: there is already activity around the house, visitors
text: coming and going, messengers, petitioners. A few impor-
text: tant callers arrive in litters, carried by slaves.
text: Lucinnius and Hector even have to join a line at the door
text: and are checked in by the gateman. Lucinnius's hopes of
text: quietly bending Cyprian's ear are dashed. It seems as
dialog: if the whole world owes allegiance to this provincial
dialog: Mr. Big.
scene_heading: 34 EXT. COURTYARD - MORNING 34
text: The slaves gather on one side of the courtyard, gossiping
text: and playing games of chance on the ground. Their masters
text: wait on the other side of the courtyard, seated on
text: benches along the wall. Cyprian's aides usher the
text: visitors into his presence in a regular flow, some have
text: an audience of a few minutes, others last merely seconds.
text: Hector keeps an eye on Lucinnius, like a mother watching
text: her child from a distance on its first day at school.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: 34 CONTINUED: 34
text: Lucinnius, sitting expectantly in line, does look a
text: little pathetic, even ridiculous. Straight-backed, hands
text: on knees, alert, worried, he looks a bit like a sacri-
text: ficial offering himself.
text: Hector plays a game of five-stone with some other slaves
text: as he watches Lucinnius shuffling up the bench place by
text: place to the front of the line. We almost expect Hector
text: to give him a little wave of encouragement as he is
text: finally summoned into the inner office. Hector waits.
text: The first signs seem good. Lucinnius doesn't emerge
text: within the first minute. Cyprian is at least giving him
text: the time of day. More minutes pass. Hector watches a
text: game of handball while keeping an eye on the office door.
text: One or two others, familiar to us from the bathhouse, go
text: into the office. So does Lucinnius' friend Julian.
text: Eventually Lucinnius emerges into the sunlight, a broad
text: smile on his face. Hector relaxes and leaves the ball
text: game to join him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You look happier.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Relieved anyway... relieved that
text: it's over at last.
text: Lucinnius strides out of the courtyard with Hector
text: following after him.
scene_heading: 35 EXT. STREETS - DAY 35
text: Lucinnius and Hector are walking home in their usual
text: formation. Hector is closer than normal, so that they
dialog: can talk.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Will he help you?
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: I have to kill myself by tomorrow
dialog: morning. He has all my letters to
dialog: Titinius, none of them got
dialog: through. He says it's like
dialog: treason... and he says I should
dialog: want to die for owing him half a
dialog: million anyway...
text: Hector is shocked.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What if you don't...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 24.
scene_heading: 35 CONTINUED: 35
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Then he will... and that wouldn't
dialog: be pleasant... he would drag me to
dialog: Rome... those letters...
text: Lucinnius shivers to think of them.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: I'm done for, Hector... but it's
dialog: strange... I feel kind of good
dialog: about it... the struggle is over
dialog: ... we've seen it through
dialog: together, eh?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't know what to say.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Let's get home. We have a lot to
dialog: do.
text: Lucinnius quickens his pace.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Tonight... peace at last...
text: Lucinnius is obviously in a state of shock.
scene_heading: 36 INT. HOUSE - DAY 36
text: Hector and Lucinnius are in his study. Lucinnius is
text: busy clearing up his papers. He is less hysterical than
text: in the previous scene, more aware of the reality of what
dialog: he has to do.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: We'll do it with a knife, Hector.
text: When everyone has gone to bed.
dialog: The two of us, to the end...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't understand. What do you
dialog: want me to do... I don't think I
dialog: can help you...
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: We'll help each other, Hector. We
dialog: must. We've been through this
dialog: whole mess together... we must die
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 25.
scene_heading: 36 CONTINUED: 36
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't know what you mean. What
dialog: mess? *
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: You don't understand do you? I'm
dialog: asking you to die with me...
dialog: you're my closest, my dearest
dialog: slave... what would they say about
dialog: me if you refused to die with me?
dialog: This is honor... we're choosing *
dialog: death... we're not going to submit
dialog: to the humiliations that Cyprian
dialog: can heap on us, are we?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You say we... I don't know... what
dialog: is we? I've done nothing... I *
dialog: know nothing...
text: Lucinnius changes his tone, becomes more, in his own
dialog: mind, frank, man-to-man.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Hector... at Cyprian's this morning
dialog: ... I had to sign certain papers
dialog: ... tell a bit of a story...
dialog: *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What kind of story?
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: A confession. That we were
dialog: plotting against Cyprian and the
dialog: provincial senate... we were short
dialog: of names... most of the people I
dialog: know were in the room... people I
dialog: thought were my friends... so I
dialog: mentioned you... I had to...
text: Hector is stunned with shock...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: So I'm a conspirator?
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Yes. So you see, I don't want you
dialog: to die with me just because of my
dialog: honor... it's more complicated...
dialog: I'm sorry, Hector. I would be
dialog: honored... if you would die with
dialog: me... I mean it...
text: Hector manages to speak.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 26. *
scene_heading: 36 CONTINUED: (2) 36
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Can I sit down?
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Of course.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: This is the worst it's been.
scene_heading: 37 EXT. COURTYARD - DAY 37
text: Hector is in the inner courtyard of the house, beside the
text: kitchen. He is talking to GALLUS, who is Lucinnius's
text: ten-year-old son. Hector has a close friendship with
text: him. As we listen to their conversation it becomes clear
text: that Hector finds comfort in the boy, for the family that
dialog: he lost.
text: Today there is an air of distraction about Hector.
text: Understandable, considering his scheduled death.
text: The kitchen slaves come and go as they talk.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: But even if it's round you can
text: still fall off the edge.
text: Hector has picked up a large metal plate to help him make
dialog: his point.
speaker_heading: GALLUS
dialog: No... it's not round like that...
dialog: it's round like this.
text: Gallus sees his playball. He picks it up.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Do you believe everything that
dialog: Greek tells you...?
text: Gallus ignores this tease, intent on the ball.
speaker_heading: GALLUS
dialog: Rome must be right in the middle...
dialog: here... and we must be out here
dialog: somewhere...
text: Hector becomes more interested.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 27.
scene_heading: 37 CONTINUED: 37
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: So, where is my home?
speaker_heading: GALLUS
dialog: How many months did they march you
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Seven.
text: Gallus walks out the distance from Rome with his fingers, *
dialog: as if there is serious calculation. *
speaker_heading: GALLUS
dialog: It must be about here. *
text: His fingers stop on the other side of the ball.
speaker_heading: GALLUS
dialog: But then you'd be upside down...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I wasn't upside down... and how *
dialog: could you see the sun round there
dialog: ... I saw the sun at home... every
dialog: day...
text: Gallus is stumped for answers. *
speaker_heading: GALLUS
dialog: I'll ask him tomorrow... *
text: Hector remembers that he and the boy's father are *
text: supposed to die that night. He looks on Gallus with a *
text: new tenderness.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes, tell me tomorrow... I'd like
dialog: to know... because my children are
dialog: round there and I want to know
dialog: that they're getting the sun...
dialog: ask him something else, too...
dialog: where are the gods if the whole
dialog: thing is round?
speaker_heading: GALLUS
dialog: I think I know that... they're out
dialog: here, and all around... that's how
text: they can look down and see
dialog: everything...
scene_heading: 38 INT. ALTAR - NIGHT 38
text: Lucinnius is at it again. In the lamplight, a live
text: chicken stands on the altar.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 28.
scene_heading: 38 CONTINUED: 38
text: Hector and Lucinnius watch it as if their lives depended
dialog: on it. Perhaps they do.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: If he eats the grain it means yes.
text: He scatters some grain on the table. The chicken at once
text: begins to peck them up.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's saying yes... there's a way...
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: No, it's saying yes, we should die.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: But you asked it if we had to die,
dialog: or if there was another way... it's
dialog: saying yes, there is...
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: No, it's saying yes, we should die.
text: The bird is certainly enjoying his food.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Maybe it's just hungry...
text: The chicken is inscrutable, as they are prone to be.
scene_heading: 39 INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT 39
text: A dead chicken adorns Lucinnius's table. He and his
text: wife, DALMIA, and their son are lying on their couches
text: picking at the food with their fingers. Lucinnius is
text: drinking more wine than usual. Hector and the other
text: household slaves are in attendance. Thalia is also
text: there, serving her mistress.
text: Dalmia knows something is up, but she doesn't know what.
text: She attempts to break the silence. She calls on the cook
text: from the kitchen.
speaker_heading: DALMIA
dialog: Solus!
text: The kitchen slave quickly appears.
speaker_heading: DALMIA
dialog: Solus... I'm eating chicken again.
dialog: I ate chicken yesterday and the
dialog: day before... will I be eating
dialog: chicken again tomorrow? Why am I
dialog: always eating chicken?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 29.
scene_heading: 39 CONTINUED: 39
text: SOLUS looks up at Lucinnius and Hector, but they offer
dialog: him no help.
speaker_heading: SOLUS
dialog: It's what we have to hand in the
dialog: kitchen, ma'am... I always try to
dialog: use the fresh stuff... the
dialog: chickens have just been turning
dialog: up...
text: He looks again at Lucinnius and Hector. They look at
text: each other. Thalia looks at Hector. Dalmia looks at
text: them all looking at each other, more intrigued than she
dialog: was before.
text: A SLAVE interrupts them.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: Two men have come to see you.
dialog: From Cyprian.
text: Lucinnius and Hector look at each other and share a
text: moment of hope. They might be coming with good news,
text: perhaps a softening of Cyprian's heart.
scene_heading: 40 INT. RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT 40
text: The two VISITORS that await Lucinnius and Hector are an
text: unpromising sight. They are big men, unsophisticated and
text: look uncomfortable in their well-cut togas. A couple of
text: the godfather's foot soldiers.
text: They greet Lucinnius deferentially, but he knows that
text: they would break his back at the whim of their master.
speaker_heading: VISITOR
text: Good evening, Lucinnius. Cyprian
dialog: asked us if we could be of any *
dialog: assistance... in the business that
dialog: you have to conduct tonight... to
dialog: make that business as... *
dialog: comfortable... as you could wish...
text: Lucinnius sighs, as his last hope expires.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Thank you, gentlemen... But I feel
dialog: that I will be capable of taking
dialog: care of my affairs tonight without
dialog: your help... Thank Cyprian for his
dialog: kind thought...
text: The heavies metaphorically keep their foot in the door.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 30.
scene_heading: 40 CONTINUED: 40
speaker_heading: VISITOR
dialog: We're spending the night at the
dialog: house of Nepos, not far from here.
dialog: Don't hesitate to send your man for
dialog: us... at any time... We're anxious
dialog: that things should go well for you.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Thank you. Good night.
speaker_heading: VISITOR
dialog: We'll call in the morning at any
dialog: rate... just to make sure.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Thank you.
text: Hector is closing the door when one of the Visitors talks
text: roughly to him.
speaker_heading: VISITOR
dialog: You. Come here.
text: Hector instinctively looks to his master. Lucinnius
text: doesn't protest, but retreats into the house. Hector is
text: left alone with the Visitors.
speaker_heading: VISITOR
dialog: He looks like the kind that'll
dialog: want some help. Have you ever
dialog: killed before?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Only chickens.
speaker_heading: VISITOR
dialog: He's not much different. Use a
dialog: thin blade, but long. Get it in
dialog: deep... the heart... feel for a
dialog: space between the ribs...
text: He prods at Hector's body freely, showing him what to do.
text: If it is ticklish, Hector doesn't let on.
speaker_heading: VISITOR
dialog: ... or go in from the back... any
dialog: place he'll let you...
text: We leave Hector nodding obediently as this weirdest of
text: coaching lessons continues.
speaker_heading: VISITOR
dialog: Getting it out's not as easy as
dialog: you might think... you have to
dialog: twist a bit... to get over the
dialog: stickiness...
dialog: 31.
scene_heading: 41 INT. STUDY - NIGHT 41
text: Late at night in Lucinnius's study, an oil lamp and a
text: candle cast their shadowy light, adding to the tension in
text: the room. Hector stands beside Lucinnius, who is
text: counting out coins and other valuables on his table.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Eight hundred sesterces... cash
dialog: ... that's all that's left... what
dialog: a failure... my father left me
dialog: three farms and forty thousand...
text: Lucinnius places the money in a box on his table. He is
text: quite drunk, resigned now to his fate. Hector however is
text: cold sober, grim-faced. Lucinnius looks up at him.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Nothing else to be done. Don't
dialog: you want some wine?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No... but I want something...
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I want to die a free man... I
dialog: don't want to die a slave...
text: Lucinnius looks at him grimly and manages a smile. He *
text: clears his throat and attempts to put a note of ceremony
text: into his voice.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Hector, by this proclamation, I
dialog: make you a freed man... I don't
dialog: know the exact words... I've never
dialog: done it before... But you're free,
dialog: Hector.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: In writing... so that when they
dialog: find me... they know I died a free
dialog: man... please...
text: Lucinnius looks at him for a moment, then reaches out for
text: his paper and pen.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Very well...
text: He scratches out a few words on the paper, Hector looking
text: over his shoulder, keenly watching what he writes.
text: Lucinnius finishes writing and lays down the pen.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 32.
scene_heading: 41 CONTINUED: 41
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: They'll find it in the morning.
dialog: It's a nice thought, Hector... you
dialog: were right to ask.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Well... freed man, let's do it. *
text: Lucinnius picks up a large kitchen knife which lies on
text: the table. He fingers its blade.
dialog: *
text: A trickle of fear passes across Hector's face. Will the
text: half-drunk Lucinnius want to kill him first?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What do you want me to do?
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Nothing... I mean, not to me... I
dialog: have to do it first... you
dialog: understand that... and then you...
dialog: if I don't succeed... then you
dialog: must help me...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I understand.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: No point in messing up the room.
dialog: Let's go downstairs.
text: Lucinnius stands and leaves the room. Hector follows
text: with the oil lamp.
scene_heading: 42 INT. PASSAGE - NIGHT 42
text: The house is quiet and in darkness as they walk along the
text: passage and down the stairs to the washing room. Hector
text: walks behind, casting the light on Lucinnius's crumpled,
text: defeated form. Lucinnius begins to sob, at first
text: quietly, then more loudly and more pathetically. Hector
text: looks around and behind him, afraid, or perhaps hoping,
text: that Lucinnius's moans will wake the household.
scene_heading: 43 INT. WASH ROOM - NIGHT 43
text: Lucinnius has worked himself into a dramatic state of
text: distress, with drink and terror and self pity.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 33. *
scene_heading: 43 CONTINUED: 43
text: He runs into the tiled washing room, wails loudly and
text: makes a stabbing motion at his stomach. Hector sees all
text: of this from behind as he enters the room. Lucinnius
text: crumples to the floor and squats on his knees. He calls
text: out in pain.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Oh, that hurts, that stings!
text: Lucinnius sits back on the step of the washing pool,
text: holding his stomach. Hector sits down beside him. They
text: both look down at the blade, still in Lucinnius' body.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: This is hopeless.
text: They sit absurdly like this for a long moment, neither
text: of them knowing what do do next. It's awkward, like in a
text: waiting room. Then Lucinnius speaks.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Help me, Hector...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You've done it... you've done it
dialog: ... lie down...
text: Hector speaks gently, like coaxing a frightened animal.
text: He helps Lucinnius lie out on the marble floor.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Close your eyes... you did it...
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Thank you, thank you.
dialog: The movement has increased the spread of blood over
text: Lucinnius' clothing. He raises his head.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: You do it now, Hector... hurry...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Lie still... lie still...
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Do it Hector... do it... you
dialog: promised...
text: It looks as if Hector is playing for time.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Shush... I'll need the knife...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 34.
scene_heading: 43 CONTINUED: (2) 43
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Take it... do it...
text: Lucinnius' voice is fading now. Hector waits, then
text: reaches down for the knife in Lucinnius' stomach. We
text: see on his face the effort as he pulls at it, and do we
text: detect a subtle twisting of the blade to speed Lucinnius
text: on his way? Lucinnius sighs and twitches a little. It's
text: as if the life flows out of him as the knife is released
text: from the wound. His voice is even more faint.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Do it, Hector... do it... do it...
text: Hector has the knife in his hand, but still he waits,
text: looking at Lucinnius, willing the last dregs of life from
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: LUCINNIUS
dialog: Do it... do it... do it...
text: The whispers fade to a croak. Lucinnius lies still.
text: Hector has won this final battle of wills. He stands up,
text: suddenly repulsed by what has happened. But quickly he
text: gathers his wits. He makes his decision. He throws the
text: knife down. It clatters along the hard shiny floor.
text: Hector has run out of the room before it has come to rest
text: against the wall.
scene_heading: 44 INT. STUDY - NIGHT 44
text: Hector runs into the study and makes for the box contain-
text: ing the coins. He puts most of them into a leather money
text: bag and ties it to his waist. Then he pulls on
text: Lucinnius's cloak and rushes out of the room. He returns
dialog: quickly to pick up his certificate of freedom from the
text: table. Then just as he is leaving, he again stops, sits
text: down on the chair, pulls off his worn shoes and places on
text: his feet a pair of Lucinnius's stout street sandals.
scene_heading: 45 EXT. COURTYARD - NIGHT 45
text: Hector is walking quickly from the kitchen across the
text: courtyard to the street gate. Near the gate he stops
text: and looks back at the house. He makes a decision and
text: retraces his steps across the courtyard and back into
dialog: the house.
scene_heading: 46 INT. THALIA'S ROOM - NIGHT 46
text: Thalia is sleeping in a large pallet bed on the floor
text: with two other women. Hector gently shakes her shoulder,
text: trying not to wake the others. After a moment or two
text: Thalia opens her eyes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 35.
scene_heading: 46 CONTINUED: 46
text: Hector whispers to her before she has time to open her
dialog: mouth.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm leaving... come now if you
dialog: want to... but we must hurry...
dialog: I'm a free man... I'm free.
dialog: Will you come?
scene_heading: 47 EXT. HARBOR - NIGHT 47
text: The shadowy cloaked figures making their way down to the *
dialog: harbor are Hector and Thalia. *
text: Nearer the harbor we sense the nighttime work of loading
text: and preparing ships for the morning tide. By the light
text: of oil lamps cargos are manhandled aboard, voices shout,
text: WINCHES CREAK. Hector encounters a night WATCHMAN, but
text: diverts his suspicion by boldly addressing him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I have some mail for Tyre... where
dialog: are the east-bound ships?
speaker_heading: WATCHMAN
dialog: Ask at the harbor. *
text: With an authoritative nod, Hector strides off in the
text: direction of the noise and lights, Thalia at his heels.
text: Hector talks when the Watchman is out of earshot.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We want a timber ship... they go
dialog: west... straight to Rome...
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: And then? Then you go home? *
text: Hector hurries on, noncommittal in his reply.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You can go to anywhere from Rome.
scene_heading: 48 EXT. QUAY - NIGHT 48
text: Hector and Thalia approach a ship heavily laden with
text: timber. Final supplies are being carried aboard, super-
text: vised by two men on the quay. Hector approaches them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Where is the Captain?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 36.
scene_heading: 48 CONTINUED: 48
speaker_heading: CREWMAN
text: He's on the ship.
text: He indicates a man standing on the rear deck. Hector and
text: Thalia climb up the gangplank and approach him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Good morning, Captain... I'm
dialog: looking for passage to Rome, for
dialog: both of us...
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: And who might you be?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm the steward of Lucinnius the
dialog: merchant... we have business in
dialog: Rome... I need an immediate
dialog: passage...
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: It's five or six days... to *
dialog: Brundisium... you can walk or ride
dialog: from there... you have money?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Of course.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Well, let's see... passage for
dialog: two... food for two... six days...
dialog: what were you thinking of offering?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: When do you leave?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Anxious to leave, are you?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Keen to start, yes.
scene_heading: 49 INT. SHIP - DAY 49
text: Hector and Thalia are asleep, huddled together in a cor-
text: ner of the ship that they have claimed as their quarters.
text: A CREWMAN comes and shakes Hector awake. He stirs himself
text: to the sounds of a SHIP UNDERWAY, the sounds of the SEA-
text: WASH, the WIND in the CANVAS, the MOANS of the TIMBERS.
speaker_heading: CREWMAN
text: Captain says to come on deck.
text: Hector wakes Thalia and they clamber out of the darkness
text: of the hold onto the brightest, freshest of days at sea.
dialog: 37.
scene_heading: 50 EXT. SHIP - DAY 50
text: There is no sign of land behind them. The ship is moving
text: swiftly in a strong, clean breeze and a light sea. We
text: can tell from Thalia's reactions that she has never been
dialog: out at sea before, at least never above deck. Every-
text: thing is novel to her and it shows, even the movement of *
text: the ship. Her excitement is childlike.
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: Where's the land gone?
dialog: *
text: Hector, too, is taken by the novelty of it all but is
text: less prepared to admit it. He waves his hands around the
text: empty horizon noncommittally.
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: Have you been on a ship before?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes, of course.
dialog: We can tell he is lying.
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: Me, too, but they kept us down
dialog: there.
text: She points down into the lower depths of the hold. Then
text: she gets even more excited.
speaker_heading: THALIA
dialog: Tonight... we'll be where the
dialog: thunder is!
text: They look at each other and then all around them. The
text: freshness of the day and on an overwhelming feeling of
dialog: freedom, exhilarate them. Their senses and their
text: feelings, are in new territory. They are like children
text: in a brand-new world.
text: The Captain on the other side of the ship, beckons them. *
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Thought you would like to see
dialog: them.
text: He points to three shapes in the mid-distance, ships
text: heading for the port they have left. There is a thrill *
text: in their glamor, their fine progress under full sail.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Your master's ships... going
dialog: home...
dialog: *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38.
scene_heading: 50 CONTINUED: 50
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No... they can't be... they're
dialog: lost...
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: No they're not... I know these
dialog: ships... my brother-in-law's the
dialog: master of the big one with the
dialog: brown sail...
text: Hector and Thalia look at each other. The Captain smiles
text: at them and looks back to the ships, coursing healthily
text: on their way.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Somebody been putting the wind up
dialog: Lucinnius? That's an old one...
dialog: didn't think anybody'd fall for
dialog: that...
scene_heading: 51 EXT. SHIP - DAY 51
text: Later, the ship is still making brisk progress. Thalia
text: and Hector are sitting on deck, some distance from one
text: another. They are quieter now, more thoughtful. Hector *
text: catches her eye. Hector is drawn by her smile and moves *
text: to join her. They sit quietly, absorbed in thought,
text: thoughts of each other, their looks and smiles tell us
text: that. As if they are talking without words. Hector
text: looks around him. A sailor on the forward deck is
text: sorting out some rope, an echo of a previous time and *
text: place. The wind catches the sailor's hat. He grabs it
text: from the air and spends time arranging it once more on
text: his head, just so. A tiny human moment. *
scene_heading: 52 EXT. WAGON - DAY 52
text: A man is driving a heavy two-horse wagon. The wind has
text: just lifted his hat from his head. He spends some time
text: replacing it carefully, just so. Watching him from the
text: back of the wagon is Hector.
text: The drama of the lives of Thalia and Hector has played
text: itself out long ago. Between the breath of sea breeze
text: that lifted the hat of the Roman sailor and the gust of
text: mountain wind that snatches the hat of the wagoner, lies
dialog: 1400 years. *
text: Hector sits in the wagon beside a woman. There are
text: tantalizing similarities between their situation and the *
dialog: one we left Thalia and Hector in on the boat a few
dialog: moments ago, 1400 years ago.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 39.
scene_heading: 52 CONTINUED: 52
text: The woman and Hector exchange glances now and then,
text: delicate signals of mutual awareness. Talking without
dialog: words.
text: They are not alone in the wagon, perched on its half load
text: of timber. With them is a NUN accompanying a GIRL of
text: about eight. The Girl is tearful. A man, his face
text: unseen, is snoring underneath his hat. A younger man,
text: gaunt and hungry-looking, is dressed in the rough
text: travelling clothes of a monk or PRIEST. Even without his
dialog: habit we would know he was a holy man. His incessant
dialog: talk tells us.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: We want to praise God because we
dialog: live in this ultimate age, when
dialog: all things are done, all is known,
dialog: all the wonders of his creation
dialog: revealed to us... nothing more for
dialog: man to see or do... all that is
dialog: left is the hope of salvation...
dialog: even for our humbler sisters...
text: The Girl is sobbing through all of this.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Yes weep, child, weep for joy...
dialog: you are a glorious example to us
dialog: all... already a child of God's...
dialog: blessed to spend your earthly days
dialog: within his church as Christ's
dialog: servant... what generous parents
dialog: you have... giving you to the
dialog: sisters... What a sacrifice. *
text: There is an Irish lilt to his voice which colors what *
text: he is saying with a tinge of mischief. He is a difficult
text: fellow to pin down. Hector looks at him amusedly, still *
text: sharing his thoughts silently with the woman, BEATRICE.
text: The Nun interrupts the Priest cheerfully.
speaker_heading: NUN
dialog: She's already received the last
text: rites, before she left her family.
dialog: She belongs to God now... Don't you? *
text: The child sobs more noisily. *
speaker_heading: PRIEST
text: Fortunate child, destined for
text: paradise. Untouched by the
dialog: abiding curse of carnal lust. I
dialog: struggle against it...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 40.
scene_heading: 52 CONTINUED: (2) 52
speaker_heading: PRIEST (CONT'D)
dialog: I will not join myself carnally
dialog: with any woman...
text: He looks accusingly at Beatrice. *
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: ... I will carry my unspilt seed
dialog: from this world to the next... as
dialog: should every man...
text: Now Hector is getting the hard looks from the Priest.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: ... If all men forsook forever the
dialog: fleshy temptations... and held
dialog: womankind to barrenness... think
dialog: how much the sooner would come the
dialog: day of judgement... all God's
dialog: chosen gathered in paradise... I've *
dialog: written a small treatise in favor *
dialog: of virginity, sister. We could *
dialog: discuss it later if you like... *
text: The DRIVER of the wagon turns his head briefly to the
dialog: Priest.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: What are you talking about?
text: Hector gestures to Beatrice that he is leaving the wagon
text: to walk for a while and asks her to join him. She shakes
text: her head with a smile. Hector smiles, too, then jumps
text: down from the wagon and, walking slowly, allows it to
text: gain ground in front of him. The ramblings of the Priest
text: fade away.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: It's simple, brother... if we
dialog: cease carnal union entirely then
dialog: in fifty or so years we'll all be
dialog: rid of our earthly lives and God
dialog: can proceed with His reign over
dialog: His heavenly kingdom... that same
dialog: paradise that God gave to man
dialog: before, but which man was so unfit
dialog: to inhabit that within seven hours
text: Eve was already tempting her
dialog: master and mate, and within nine
dialog: hours the Lord had to expel the
dialog: both of them! Just think, they *
dialog: messed it up in nine hours! *
dialog: 41.
scene_heading: 53 EXT. MOUNTAIN TRACK - DAY 53
text: Hector smiles as the Priest's VOICE FADES into the dis-
text: tance. It is a cold fresh day of early summer. They are *
text: travelling high in the mountains. Hector dawdles on
text: his way, eating a hard biscuit he takes from his pocket.
text: The last sound he hears from the wagon is the renewed
text: WAILING OF the GIRL. Hector lays himself down at the *
text: side of the road. His eyes begin to close. Then a SOUND
text: in the distance makes him open them again. He listens.
text: MORE SOUNDS drift up to him from the floor of the valley.
text: He stands up and crosses the track. At first he can see
text: nothing. He walks back along the rim of the road. Then
text: he sees where the noise is coming from. A mounted
text: skirmish is in progress, just where a wooden bridge
text: crosses the small river, at the very bottom of the valley.
text: There are no more than 30 knights in full armor, with
text: twice as many foot soldiers and squires. Even from such
text: a distance Hector can see and hear that the fighting is
text: ferocious, almost insane in its intensity. From this
text: distance it is like a puppet show, except the violence
text: is real. The scene places Hector in his time and for us
text: there is a strange feeling to it, almost as if Hector
text: has awoken from sleep and found himself transported to
text: some distant age. But this is not the case. Hector is
text: where he belongs, in Medieval Europe.
text: Hector makes his decision. With a last look behind him *
text: he runs off in the direction of the wagon. Like any wise
text: citizen of a violent age, Hector knows when to leg it.
scene_heading: 54 EXT. WAGON - DAY 54
text: Hector catches up with the moving wagon and jumps onto
text: it, happily back in the security of his fellow *
text: travellers. He smiles at Beatrice. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: A bit cold... walking...
text: She smiles at him. He sits opposite her in the wagon,
text: and allows his foot to touch hers. She doesn't move
text: away. Hector calls to the Driver.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How long to get there?
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: When it gets dark, we'll be there. *
text: Hector looks at Beatrice.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 42.
scene_heading: 54 CONTINUED: 54
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I thought I heard fighting... back
dialog: there...
text: Beatrice replies, but in a language that Hector doesn't
dialog: understand.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I don't know what you're saying...
dialog: I haven't understood anything
dialog: you've said all day...
text: Hector talks back to her.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't know what you're saying...
text: They both smile. It doesn't seem to disturb them too
text: much that they don't share a language. They repeat *
text: their incomprehensible statements, just for the fun of
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I don't know what you're saying.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't understand.
text: Beside Hector the Girl has stopped sobbing but she is
text: still troubled. She turns to him and speaks quietly but
text: with determination.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: I want to go home to my mother.
text: Hector doesn't know how to respond. He can do nothing *
text: to help her, and anyway, is more interested in Beatrice. *
scene_heading: 55 EXT. FARMYARD - NIGHT 55
text: It is almost dark when the wagon finally turns into the
text: yard of the farm where they will spend the night.
scene_heading: 56 INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT 56
text: The Farmer and his Wife have laid out a table with
text: simple food, a stew, bread and wine. The travellers settle
text: down to eat. The Priest, however makes a performance out
text: of his more modest needs. He calls loudly to the wife
text: working at the open fire.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 43.
scene_heading: 56 CONTINUED: 56
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Just bread and water for me,
dialog: Mistress. I have no need of wine
dialog: or meat.
text: She brings him a jug of water and he makes much of giving
dialog: thanks to God for his simple meal, muttering his grace
text: quietly to himself, excluding all others from his conver-
dialog: sation with the Almighty.
scene_heading: 57 INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT 57
text: In the dark, sleeping bodies lie all over the floor of an
text: upstairs room. Gentle snores and regular breathing lay a
text: blanket of soft sound over the human forms.
text: One of the forms stirs and sits up on one elbow. Hector,
text: in another corner of the room, sleeping lightly, becomes
text: aware of this. He watches as the figure stands up and
text: picks its way between the bodies to the door. The figure
text: pauses and crouches over Beatrice. Hector can hear the
text: distinct sounds of the figure sniffing her, from head to
text: toe, and then a deep, long sigh. The figure stands up and
text: moves quietly to the door, disappearing downstairs.
text: Hector rouses himself and follows the other.
scene_heading: 58 INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT 58
text: Hector creeps cautiously into the dark kitchen. The *
text: figure has gone to the pantry and can be heard RUMMAGING
text: there. Hector creeps closer and sees that it is the
text: Priest. He already has a chicken leg between his teeth
text: as he hunts for a cup for the jar of wine tucked under
text: his arm. He emerges from the pantry. He sees Hector
text: standing by the table. They recognize one another and
text: relax. The Priest doesn't re-enter his holy act. He
text: speaks normally, cheekily.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: God, I'm starving. Do you think
dialog: I dare heat that up on the fire?
text: He indicates the large pot containing the remains of the
dialog: stew.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: No... I'll eat it cold... I
dialog: deserve to suffer.
text: He pours some wine into the cup and slides it across the
text: table to Hector.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 44.
scene_heading: 58 CONTINUED: 58
text: Then he digs his hands into the cold stew and eats chunks
text: of meat as they talk.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Have some wine.
text: Hector takes a drink.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I saw some fighting today... back
dialog: up the road...
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: So, the mad knights are at it
dialog: again... what were they, Swiss
dialog: or English?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't know. They all look the
dialog: same to me.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: It might help us get through...
dialog: if there's a bit of confusion...
dialog: we'll still travel separately
dialog: though, for now.
text: The Priest changes his tone of voice, mocking his own
dialog: holy act.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: But, Hector, you must keep out
dialog: of the way of temptation... I saw
dialog: the way you were eyeing up that
dialog: widow... now stay away from
dialog: that... although she is beautiful,
dialog: is she not... but we're going
dialog: home, remember.
text: Hector is smiling.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How do you know she's a widow?
speaker_heading: PRIEST
text: Look at her eyes... hungry eyes...
dialog: she could lead you into trouble...
text: she smells like paradise, though.
text: He changes his tone yet again. He talks straight.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 45.
scene_heading: 58 CONTINUED: (2) 58
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Listen, Hector, let's get this
dialog: clear... if anyone's going to dally
dialog: with that widow it'll be me... you
dialog: couldn't handle her... she'd
dialog: bewitch you... at any rate, you're
dialog: not a sinning kind of fellow, are
dialog: you... why don't you get off up
dialog: the road tomorrow, and I'll catch
dialog: you up, in five or so days...
text: Hector doesn't answer, but smiles. The Priest has
text: stirred thoughts that he had intended to dampen entirely.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: You're not a sinning fellow,
dialog: remember... another month and
dialog: we'll be at the channel, then
dialog: home... the little ones you only
dialog: talk about when you're drunk...
dialog: don't forget them...
text: Hector still remains silent. The Priest is worried.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Why do I always talk so much...
dialog: you weren't even thinking of her
dialog: 'til I opened my mouth... but I
dialog: trust you... don't worry. I know
dialog: you wouldn't do anything to anger
dialog: your God, or me. Get me some
dialog: bread.
text: Hector obeys the Priest without thought. The Priest is *
text: happier now that he is in control again.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Who saved your neck in Venice?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You did, Ronald.
text: Hector approaches the Priest with the bread.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: And don't you forget it.
text: He raises his cup to Hector.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: May the Lord forgive us our sins,
dialog: those we have committed and those
dialog: we as yet only dream of. She's
text: a glory of a woman.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 46.
scene_heading: 58 CONTINUED: (3) 58
dialog: For all his wit and endless talk we can sense a trace of
text: vulnerabililty in Ronald. For all his bluster, there is
text: the feeling that he needs Hector as much as he claims
text: Hector needs him.
scene_heading: 59 EXT. FARMYARD - DAY 59
text: Overnight, the remnants of a company of soldiers, fresh *
text: from battle, have collected in the courtyard. Some are
text: tired, dispirited, others are wounded. Our Travellers *
text: watch from the farm window. A few mounted knights come
text: into the yard, herding in front of them a small group of
text: prisoners, well-dressed knights and squires.
scene_heading: 60 INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY 60
text: The travellers look out on the exciting scene, and talk
text: as they eat their breakfast of bread and milk.
speaker_heading: PEDLAR
dialog: Hostages, too, they've got... they
dialog: only take the rich ones...
text: He turns to the forlorn Girl.
speaker_heading: PEDLAR
dialog: Have you ever seen so many fine,
dialog: rich men, my girl?
text: Hector talks to the company, but means his words for the
dialog: Priest.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I won't be travelling today.
text: The Priest looks him straight in the eye.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: The fighting's behind us, brother
dialog: ... you'll be safe enough.
text: Hector shakes his head, catching Beatrice's eye.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'll stay.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: You should go.
text: The Nun puts an arm around the Girl.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: 60 CONTINUED: 60
speaker_heading: NUN
dialog: We're going. God will protect
dialog: his ewe lambs. *
text: Suddenly the door is thrown open and four SOLDIERS man-
text: handle an inert body, dressed in full armor, into the
text: room. They scatter the food from the table and lay out
text: the MOANING suit of armor on it. A young SQUIRE follows
text: them in and kneels by the knight in the suit. The MOANS
text: are MUFFLED because the knight's helmet has been battered
text: out of shape in the battle and can't be removed. The
text: ugly dent suggests an equally ugly wound inflicted on the
text: head inside. The Soldiers gingerly try to remove the
text: helmet. Their efforts are useless. Blood oozes from the
text: joints of the helmet. The MOANING suit of armor seems
text: inhuman, robot-like.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Must be sore in there. Is it your
dialog: dada?
text: The Squire looks at him and nods his head. Hector looks *
text: with sympathy at the boy. *
speaker_heading: SOLDIER #2
dialog: If he's got a little head it might
dialog: be alright. Has your dada got a
dialog: big head?
text: An OFFICER comes into the room.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Is there a blacksmith here?
dialog: Where's the smith?
speaker_heading: FARM WOMAN
dialog: In the village, sir, half a day
dialog: away.
text: The Officer looks at the moaning suit of armor, then at
text: the astonished group of Travellers. He picks on the
dialog: Priest.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: You, Priest, come here... get to
dialog: work on him... he's not ready for
dialog: heaven yet... there's a hundred
dialog: thousand livres on his head if I
dialog: get him to Paris alive... Start *
dialog: praying... there's fifteen livres
dialog: in it for you if he lives...
text: The Priest obediently goes up to the knight and starts to
text: pray earnestly. The Officer turns to the Soldiers.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: 60 CONTINUED: (2) 60
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Get that helmet off... get
dialog: hammers, anything you can find... *
dialog: and one of you get back down into
text: the valley and fetch an armorer.
text: The Soldiers scatter to carry out their orders. Hector *
text: takes time to watch the Squire still kneeling beside his *
text: father, quietly stroking the helmet. Ronald the Priest
text: mutters every prayer he can remember. The suit of armor
text: twitches and MOANS.
text: Hector looks at Beatrice and motions for her to follow
text: him outside. The Priest looks on helplessly as they
text: slide past the table and head for the door.
scene_heading: 61 EXT. FARM - DAY 61
text: More soldiers have continued to make their way to the
text: shelter of the farm. Everywhere is the chaos of war.
text: Wounded men lie awaiting the attentions of either the
text: medicos or the priest. Prisoners huddle in cowed groups.
text: Everyone looks for food. Individual soldiers, like lost
text: souls, run here and there trying to regroup with their
text: comrades. The youngest are squires of twelve or thir-
text: teen, the oldest are red-faced, overweight knights in
dialog: expensive armor.
text: Hector and Beatrice have found a quiet corner where they
text: can sit and talk. Behind them is a group of soldiers,
text: reserves who have not yet joined the battle. They are
text: much fresher than the rest and are drilling as a disci-
dialog: plined unit.
text: Their movements are a strange cross between parade ground
text: drill and battle training. To the BEAT of DRUMS they
text: perform rhythmic, hypnotic movements, repeating the same
text: pattern over and over again. A deadly dance, thrusting
text: their pikes in unison. They become like one evil,
text: inhuman machine. It is mesmerizing to watch, all the *
text: more so in relation to the coy seduction scene that Hector
text: and Beatrice are acting out. They have the problem of not
text: sharing a language, but, resourceful as lovers are, they
text: soon employ this as another titillating element in their
dialog: love-play.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I think you know what I'm saying
dialog: ... a little...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 49.
scene_heading: 61 CONTINUED: 61
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: No, I don't, I don't understand
text: a word.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How come you don't speak like
dialog: anyone else? Are you far from
dialog: home? Home? Where you sleep
dialog: and live?
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I think I know what you mean...
dialog: home.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm far from home, too... way, way *
dialog: over there... then across the sea...
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: You're losing me again.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Have you ever seen the sea? Water *
dialog: everywhere... right to the end of
dialog: the world... I come from the other
dialog: side of the little water, then *
dialog: there's the big, big water... I *
dialog: had a friend who sailed on that... *
dialog: went too far... fell right over *
dialog: the edge... into nothing. They
dialog: never came back... they fell off
dialog: the world...
text: Hector smiles, pleased with himself. Beatrice laughs.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You think that's funny? It's
dialog: true... it's a sad story... you
dialog: shouldn't laugh.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Talk about home again... remember *
dialog: you said home?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm not making sense, am I? Well,
dialog: let's go back to homes. That's
dialog: where I'm going... I've been away
dialog: for too long... Some people locked
dialog: me up... I had to run away.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Tell me something else. *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 50.
scene_heading: 61 CONTINUED: (2) 61
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We have to learn to talk the
dialog: same... try it like me, say it...
dialog: home...
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I know what you're saying...
dialog: you're saying home... say
dialog: something else.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Home... home... try it... home...
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: You want the word for home? It's
dialog: home... say it... home... home...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't want your word for home,
dialog: I want you to say mine... home...
dialog: home...
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Come on, you can do it... home...
dialog: home...
text: Beatrice has her way, turning the tables on Hector. He
text: says it in her language.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Home... home...
text: Beatrice smiles. In this tiny victory the dynamic of
text: their relationship is set.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: That's it... clever boy!
text: They fall silent, suddenly shy. Beatrice breaks this *
text: moment by reaching out to Hector's neck, very delicately,
text: like a caress. Hector smiles. There first touch. Then *
text: it changes. Beatrice completes her movement with a sharp
text: grab at Hector's hair, and pinches her fingers on something.
text: Triumphantly she shows him the flea she has caught.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Tick... it's a tick.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Flea... a flea... thanks.
text: Beatrice looks at him directly now, their intimacy well
text: under way.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 51.
scene_heading: 61 CONTINUED: (3) 61
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Bet there's more in there. You
dialog: need a good going over... nobody's
dialog: been looking after you.
text: She ruffles his hair, in a motherly but then again sex- *
text: ually provocative way. He understands her well now.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Why don't we go somewhere and
dialog: have a good session... I could do
dialog: you... I'd like to give you a
dialog: good grooming...
text: They understand each other perfectly now. They look
text: around for a more private spot.
scene_heading: 62 INT. FARM - DAY 62
text: Ronald the Priest still kneels by the inert knight in
text: armor. The boy Squire still sits by his father's head.
text: Ronald mumbles quietly to himself in prayer. The knight
text: is deathly still, no sight or sound of breathing or
text: moaning. The suit of armor seems to grow even more rigid
text: as we look at it. There is no sense of it containing
text: life. The Officer re-enters the room from outside.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: How is he?
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Sleeping now... at peace, for the
dialog: moment.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Leave him for a while. There are *
dialog: a few souls out here you can help
dialog: on their way to heaven. Ten sous *
dialog: a soul to you... come on.
text: The Officer leaves. Ronald quickly follows him outside. *
speaker_heading: RONALD *
dialog: Twenty sous is normal. How many *
dialog: are there? *
text: When they have gone the Squire gives his father a nudge, *
text: but there is no response from the knight, just the
text: impression of lifeless bulk.
dialog: 52.
scene_heading: 63 EXT. FARM - DAY 63
text: Hector and Beatrice have found some privacy, near the
text: trees and by a low wall. Some bushes hide them from
text: full view of the farm yard. Hector is sitting cross-
text: legged and Beatrice kneels behind him, giving his head
text: a thorough going over. Mutual grooming is the original,
dialog: and perhaps the best, form of foreplay. Hector certainly
dialog: likes it.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: That's four.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes, it does feel good.
text: She gives his scalp a final delicious rub, and then stops.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: You can do me now.
text: Beatrice loosens her clothing to bare her neck and
text: shoulders. Hector begins to probe her hair and scalp. *
text: She arches her back under the first touch of his fingers.
text: Hector laps it up, inspired to caress ever more tenderly *
text: her scalp and neck, still with the outward purpose of
dialog: looking for fleas.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Got one... a tiny little one...
dialog: yours are so small... and fair... *
text: To Hector even her fleas are a delight. He seems to want *
dialog: to keep it as a pet. There is no hope for this man. *
text: Beatrice moans softly, happily. Hector still kneading *
text: her scalp.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't know your name. I'm
dialog: Hector... who are you? I'm
dialog: Hector.
text: Beatrice replies with a hint of breathlessness.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Hector... yes... I'm Beatrice...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Beatrice.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Yes. Hector... I think you'll
dialog: have to do under my arms... I'm
dialog: a little itchy there...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 53.
scene_heading: 63 CONTINUED: 63
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes, I think Beatrice is a good
dialog: name. *
text: Beatrice is sighing contentedly now.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Maybe we should find the river,
dialog: and have a proper wash...
text: In between parting the hairs on her scalp Hector is kiss-
text: ing her on the neck now. At first it is small, snatched
text: kisses amongst the grooming, but soon the kisses become
dialog: longer and the grooming less.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I'm still itchy lots of places,
dialog: Hector.
scene_heading: 64 EXT. FARMYARD - DAY 64
text: The Priest is with some seriously wounded soldiers, laid
text: out in a corner of the farmyard. Whether he is a bogus
text: priest or not, Ronald is taking his duties seriously.
text: There is a little of the rogue about him now. He sees
text: the Nun and the little Girl preparing to leave. They
text: have acquired a mule. They mount up, the Girl behind
text: the Nun, and plod off through the farmyard. They stop
text: briefly beside the Priest to say their farewells.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Goodbye, little girl... the Lord
dialog: will bless you, I know, in his
dialog: house.
text: He talks to the Nun as they move off.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: How long for you on the road?
speaker_heading: NUN
dialog: Three or four days.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Good luck to you.
speaker_heading: NUN
dialog: They're not killing nuns, yet.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: The Saxon, won't he go with you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 54. *
scene_heading: 64 CONTINUED: 64
speaker_heading: NUN
text: He's nowhere to be seen.
text: The Priest watches them go, and then returns to his
dialog: duties with the wounded.
scene_heading: 65 EXT. TRACK - DAY 65
text: The Nun's mule turns out of the farmyard and heads off
text: along the track. A few Soldiers are burying some of
text: their dead nearby. The Nun watches this and doesn't see
text: what the Girl sees on the other side, the mingled bodies
text: of Hector and Beatrice, all pretence at grooming now
text: gone, engaged in fervent lovemaking. It's probably the
text: first and last that the Girl will see. A smile flickers
text: across her face before she turns away forever. Ahead of
dialog: her there might be many a bleak night in her convent
text: when she will remember the image, and that same smile
text: will return to her lips.
scene_heading: 66 EXT. FARMYARD - DAY 66
text: The Priest is kneeling beside a young wounded Soldier.
text: He is close to death, but in his youth is fighting it.
text: He is frightened, and clings to the presence of Ronald.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: My name is Peter... don't forget
dialog: ... tell everybody that was my
dialog: name... Peter...
text: Ronald is mumbling his prayers.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Lie still, Peter...
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: That's it, Peter... tell everybody
dialog: ... write it... don't forget it...
dialog: Peter... tell them Peter died here
dialog: ... my name is Peter... Peter...
dialog: say it again.
text: Ronald stays with the boy as he struggles against his
dialog: own annihilation.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Peter...
text: Ronald behaves well with the dying boy.
dialog: 55.
scene_heading: 67 INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT 67
text: The Priest makes his way upstairs in the darkness. He
text: yawns, a long, contented yawn. He has completed the
dialog: hardest day's work that he has undertaken as a priest,
dialog: if he really is a priest. If he is not, then the pre-
text: tence has been just as exhausting. He wants to sleep.
scene_heading: 68 INT. FARMHOUSE - ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT 68
text: In the room sleeping forms lie here and there in the
text: darkness. Some officers have moved in and the place is
text: more crowded than before. The Priest makes his way to
text: his corner, but on the way he pauses by Beatrice. She
text: snores lightly. The Priest bends over and takes a long
text: sniff at her, then he sighs out his admiration.
text: He steps over her and settles into his own space by the
text: window. He suddenly misses the presence of Hector. He
text: looks again at Beatrice, still and sleeping. What the
text: Priest doesn't see is the extra pair of hands massaging
text: her neck and head. She moans softly in her pretence of
dialog: sleep.
text: The Priest is troubled, suspicious, but he doesn't know
text: why. He sniffs again, in the general direction of
text: Beatrice. The mingled smells that his sensitive nose
text: detects perplex him, but he settles down, pulling his *
text: cloak over his head.
text: Across the room, Hector's head emerges from the covering
text: beside Beatrice. They make love quietly in the dark,
text: also enjoying the thrill of confounding the Priest.
scene_heading: 69 INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY 69
text: The Priest wakes up. Outside he can hear the first
text: sounds of the day, the murmuring VOICES of Soldiers in
text: the yard, the CLATTER OF MILK PAILS. In the room it is
text: still semi-dark. The Priest sits up. The others have
text: already left, but Beatrice is there, stretching herself
text: and fixing her hair. Hector is not with her. She smiles
text: at the Priest. Then, in another part of the room, Hector
text: emerges from what looks like a pile of clothing, sits up
text: and smiles too.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Good morning.
text: Hector and Beatrice look at each other. The Priest looks
text: at them in turn. Their cheeky act of innocence mocks
dialog: him.
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: 70 EXT. FARMYARD - DAY 70
text: Hector is washing himself by the stream that flows close
text: by the yard. He drinks a handful of water for breakfast.
text: The Priest sees him from the farmyard and comes to join
dialog: him. *
text: Hector is in a cheerful mood, pleased with himself and
text: his success with Beatrice. The Priest is sullen,
text: reproachful.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You're a busy man, what with all
dialog: these souls departing.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: There's nothing wrong with helping
dialog: someone to die in peace. They
dialog: want me to go with them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Nothing at all.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Are you staying here?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Moving on, as you told me to...
dialog: we'll meet up, like you said.
dialog: I'll wait for you at the channel.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: She'll do you harm. I told you.
dialog: She might be a witch. Wait for
dialog: me. I still have the money from
dialog: Venice. We can be home in a
dialog: month.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Witch my arse. Stop giving me
dialog: orders.
text: Both of them are unhappy now, confusing one another,
text: spoiling their friendship.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You're a strange fellow. Are you
dialog: a priest? Are you jealous?
text: The Priest is silent. They are saved from hurting each
text: other more. A Soldier shouts down to them from the farm.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: We're moving soon, Father.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 57.
scene_heading: 70 CONTINUED: 70
text: The Priest turns to Hector for what might be the last
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: So, you're leaving?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You have work to do here.
text: The Priest walks back up to the farm. Hector calls out *
dialog: what might be an attempt at an apology or simply another *
text: taunt.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't understand you.
text: The Priest looks back at him briefly, then walks on.
scene_heading: 71 EXT. TRACK - DAY 71
text: Hector and Beatrice have packed their few belongings into
text: a shoulder bag. They turn out of the farmyard and walk
text: down the main track.
text: Hector catches a last glimpse of the Priest being helped
text: onto the back of a horse, behind a Soldier. He is ridden
text: off in the opposite direction with the rest of the troop.
text: Other battles lie ahead to be blessed, and more battered
text: bodies requiring comfort.
text: Hector and Beatrice are enjoying the first pulse-
text: quickening flush of their intimacy, and the thrill of
text: knowing it will go further. They chatter freely, *
text: despite not sharing a language.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm glad we're going the same way.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: We'll have to sleep in the hills
dialog: tonight. Will you keep me warm?
text: The damp greyness of the early morning has lifted and the
text: sun is shining as they step out onto the higher hills.
scene_heading: 72 EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY 72
text: Hector and Beatrice have stopped to eat. They shelter in
text: the fold of a hillside, with a wide stream running some
text: way below. Hector feeds Beatrice a piece of cheese from
text: his knife.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 58.
scene_heading: 72 CONTINUED: 72
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Hurry up and finish your wine and
dialog: then we can make love.
text: Hector seems to know what she is saying. He throws down
text: his knife and cheese, lying down with her on the grass.
text: He kisses her breasts and her body eagerly. He lifts her
text: skirts and caresses and kisses her naked legs and thighs.
text: She stretches herself out happily, arms spread wide on
text: the grass. Hector talks through his kisses.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Why do you smell so wonderful?
text: He lifts his head to let her see him sniffing. *
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Oh, you like my smell, do you? I
dialog: make it from the flowers. I put *
dialog: it here, and there, and there.
text: Hector kisses her more. She smiles and turns her head to
text: the sky. Then she starts to giggle.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I don't believe it... someone's
dialog: watching us, the dirty devil...
dialog: don't look... he's down by the
dialog: water, by the rocks...
text: Hector doesn't understand, and keeps on with his kissing.
text: Only her persistent giggling makes him stop and look up. *
text: Hector sees him too. Down by the stream a head peering
text: over the top of a rock, not even attempting to hide.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Cheeky devil.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: He's not moving. He must've seen
dialog: us, though.
dialog: *
text: She sits up and straightens her clothing, suddenly
text: anxious.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Don't look at him anymore. Let's
dialog: go... down the other side of the
text: hill.
text: But Hector still looks at the figure in the distance.
text: There is an uneasy silence while Hector works it out.
text: Then he speaks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 59.
scene_heading: 72 CONTINUED: (2) 72
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: It's a dead man.
text: Beatrice doesn't understand. Hector stands up, still
text: looking at the figure.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Come on, we're going that way at
dialog: any rate.
text: They move cautiously. When they are closer to it, and *
text: can see it for what is is, they walk straight for the
text: dead body.
scene_heading: 73 EXT. HILLSIDE - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY 73 *
text: It is the body of a young squire, handsomely dressed
text: in the livery of his master. Such a squire would follow
text: his knight into battle, guiding him through the chaos. *
dialog: But this boy seems to have died a less public, more
text: furtive death. He lies leaning against a rock, eyes
text: open, an expression something like a smile on his face.
text: There is no sign of a wound.
text: Hector looks around at the ground.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No sign of a battle... only a few
dialog: horses... or just one. He wasn't
text: killed in a fight.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Poor boy. Isn't he fine-looking.
dialog: Look at his shoes.
dialog: There is a sadness about this young death in such a
dialog: lonely place. Hector and Beatrice are open to this sad- *
dialog: ness, but in their age sentiment was of a tougher strain.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: We'll cover his eyes at least...
dialog: so the crows don't get him. Look
dialog: at these shoes, though.
text: She is already gathering stones. Hector sees what
text: Beatrice is doing.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: That's good of you.
text: As he lays him down Hector sees a small, dry wound on
text: the boy's side. Beatrice brings her armful of stones and
text: starts to build a mound around the squire's head.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 60.
scene_heading: 73 CONTINUED: 73
text: Hector helps her by gathering stones from the stream.
text: Soon they have covered his head completely with stones,
text: his body lying exposed.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's all we can do. It won't keep
text: the wolves away though.
text: Beatrice is still taken by the boy's shoes.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: His feet are like mine, you know.
dialog: I'll give you mine, poor boy, and
dialog: I'll have yours. I have more
dialog: walking to do.
text: She looks at Hector.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: It's not stealing if I give him
dialog: mine, is it?
text: Hector watches as Beatrice exchanges her old shoes for
text: the squire's. They fit her well, and she proudly shows
text: them off to Hector. He smiles at her.
scene_heading: 74 EXT. STREAM - DAY 74
text: Later, Hector and Beatrice are enjoying each other
text: immensely, making love by the stream. Beatrice hasn't
dialog: removed her new shoes, she likes them so much. She is
text: dabbing Hector with her perfume which, he has discovered,
text: she keeps in a small bottle kept in a pouch on a chain
text: around her neck.
dialog: *
text: Nearby the corpse of the squire still lies, its head
text: shrouded in stones, as if absurdly hiding its eyes from
text: the antics of Hector and Beatrice. The old shoes
text: Beatrice has placed on its feet look odd compared to
dialog: the fine uniform. *
text: Hector and Beatrice seem unaware of the strangeness of
text: their situation, but perhaps it only looks strange to
dialog: our modern eyes.
text: Hector continues to bask in her wonderful aroma.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You've put magic in this stuff,
dialog: haven't you, you're bewitching
dialog: me...
text: They appear to get the gist of one another's love talk.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 61.
scene_heading: 74 CONTINUED: 74
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: You're eager today, Hector, aren't
dialog: you? Is it all this death?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't know what you're saying
dialog: but I like you when you talk.
scene_heading: 75 EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY 75
text: Hector is watching Beatrice conduct some kind of
text: ceremony over the corpse of the squire. She takes a
text: handful of dried flowers or herbs from a pouch in her
text: bag. Mumbling strangely and quickly to herself, she
text: walks around the corpse three times, scattering the
text: leaves over the body.
text: Hector is fascinated, but a little uneasy. He watches
text: from a safe distance. During the few moments that it
text: takes, Beatrice seems like a different person.
text: Then, all of a sudden, the familiar, friendly Beatrice
text: returns. She completes her ceremony by throwing a few
text: drops of her perfume over the body. She smiles. *
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: That should help him a little.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We should go now. We've been here
dialog: too long.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I wonder if his mama will ever
dialog: know what happened.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You said mama. I know what that
dialog: is... mama... We can talk the
dialog: same...
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Mama... that's right... mama...
scene_heading: 76 EXT. HILLSIDE - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY 76 *
text: They have reached the summit of the hills. It is like
text: the roof of the world. Below them lies the valley. The
text: air is clean. The landscape looks untouched by man,
text: but a few smudges of smoke in the distance suggest farms
text: or villages. There might be the glimpse of a castle on
text: a hill.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 62.
scene_heading: 76 CONTINUED: 76
dialog: If it all feels oddly familiar to us, then perhaps it
text: is the memory of a picture in a forgotten story book, or
text: an ancient landscape on a gallery wall. Once again in
text: the film there is the tantalizing feeling of awaking not
text: from a dream, but in a dream.
text: The moment passes in the more down to earth concerns of
text: Hector and Beatrice.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I have to keep the sun on my back,
dialog: that's what Ronald said... the
dialog: sun on my back all the way home...
dialog: I'll stay on this side of the
dialog: river...
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Yes, of course... we stay on this
dialog: side of the river, all the way
dialog: down... until tomorrow...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I stay on this side...
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Yes... On this side. Then the
dialog: other.
text: They move off, each thinking that they have reached
text: agreement. Beatrice starts to sing as they make a *
text: gentle descent into the forests below.
scene_heading: 77 EXT. FOREST - DAY 77
text: Beatrice is milking a stray cow they have found in the
text: forest. Hector is watching her, especially her hands.
text: She manipulates the udders of the cow deftly, sexily.
text: Her hands seem to have sensual personalities all of
text: their own. She is chattering non-stop, explaining the *
text: subtleties of milking to Hector. But he can't take
text: his eyes or his mind off her thrilling hands. He
text: responds distractedly. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Oh yes... oh yes.
scene_heading: 78 EXT. HILLS - NIGHT 78
text: Hector lies by their small fire, watching Beatrice, who
text: sleeps by his side. She is dreaming. She mumbles in
text: her sleep, whole sentences. She turns this way and that.
text: Hector watches in fascination.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 63.
scene_heading: 78 CONTINUED: 78
text: We feel the echo of another night when a man watched
text: someone sleep and dream.
text: He handles some of the things spilling from her bag,
text: lying beside him. Her dried flowers and herbs, which he
text: sniffs, her little bottles and phials. Witches brew? Or
text: simply an early version of a cluttered handbag?
text: We don't know what is passing through Hector's mind.
text: Perhaps he is trying to work out how he came to be lying
text: with the strange, wonderful, unknowable creature by his
dialog: side. And how many people have done that through the
text: ages, in caves or by campfires, or in suburban bedrooms?
dialog: There are many ways in which we will be able to connect
text: with this perplexed, flea-ridden man, far away from home,
text: huddling by a fire in the forest, trapped in his time, as
dialog: we all are.
scene_heading: 79 EXT. FOREST - MORNING 79
text: Hector and Beatrice are on the move again. They make
text: their way down into the thickening forest. Beatrice
text: walks ahead, light-footed and humming to herself. She
text: seems to be in comfortably familiar territory now. The
text: mist swirls about him as Hector follows on behind,
text: tagging along as if caught in her sexual wake.
scene_heading: 80 EXT. BOAT - DAY 80
text: Hector and Beatrice have reached the river, broad and
text: slow-moving. Beatrice has hailed a boatman from the far
text: side. He maneuvers his small boat to them and they
text: clamber aboard. Beatrice and the boatman greet each
text: other familiarly. They gossip amiably as the ferry makes
text: its way across the river. Hector sits quietly with a
text: smile on his face, their chatter incomprehensible to him.
scene_heading: 81 EXT. SHORE - DAY 81
text: As they climb out of the ferry Hector is suddenly unsure
text: of what he is doing.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I think we're going the wrong way.
dialog: I want the sun on my back. We
dialog: should have stayed on the other
dialog: side.
text: He mimes what he means.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 64.
scene_heading: 81 CONTINUED: 81
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Don't worry... we're nearly there.
dialog: I'll fix your back for you... give
dialog: you a good rub.
text: Before he can protest she has moved off. So he follows
dialog: her.
scene_heading: 82 EXT. VILLAGE OUTSKIRTS - DAY 82
text: They have reached the outskirts of a village. Beatrice
text: turns off the main track and up a narrow path. Hector
text: follows her. Soon she stops at a small house close to
text: an orchard. The house sits in the mess of a run-down
text: farm yard, chickens and goats running here and there.
text: Beatrice opens the door of the house and goes inside.
text: Hector hesitates before following her.
scene_heading: 83 INT. COTTAGE - DAY 83
text: Beatrice turns to him when they are inside.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Here we are... home... you want
dialog: some food... and then I'll show
dialog: you everything. We have a spring
dialog: ... you can wash...
text: Hector stands looking around the small dark room.
text: Beatrice suddenly seems shy and awkward.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: This is when I wish you could
dialog: understand me. You'll have to
dialog: learn, you know... I want you to
dialog: stay here. You want to, don't
dialog: you?
text: Hector looks at her in silence.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I look after the hens, and I make *
dialog: dyes from the plants, and perfumes
dialog: too. I'm good at that. But I'm *
dialog: no good with the sheep and the
dialog: goats. I wish you could
dialog: understand... Arnaud's been dead
dialog: two years... *
text: She crosses the room to a wooden chest under the window.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 65.
scene_heading: 83 CONTINUED: 83
text: She lifts the lid and removes some men's clothing, rough
text: working trousers and a hide jacket.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I still have his clothes. I'll
dialog: make them fit you...
text: She holds the jacket up against Hector to measure it.
text: Hector's reaction to a dead man's clothing is *
dialog: predictable. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR *
dialog: What did he die of? *
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I'm getting shy. Imagine me being
dialog: shy with you... I made this for
dialog: him... tonight we'll try them on.
dialog: You're the same height as Arnaud,
dialog: but a little thinner. I'll make
dialog: them fit. I'm a good sewer. And
dialog: we have a big bed upstairs for
dialog: you and me, in the rafters... You
dialog: and me... sleep...
text: Hector is beginning to understand what she means, but he
text: keeps his feelings to himself. Beatrice talks on. Now
text: that she has started, she wants to say it all.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: I like you. You like me too,
dialog: don't you? We were lucky to meet
dialog: the way we did. All the men around
dialog: here are old. *
text: Beatrice falls silent, overtaken by her shyness. Hector
text: understands fully what she means now, but his mind is
text: a confusion. He can't respond. She tries to direct his
text: thoughts to the one area she is sure about.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Come up and I'll show you the bed...
text: She climbs a ladder nearby and lifts open a trapdoor
text: on the wooden ceiling. Hector climbs up to join her and
text: together they stand on the ladder with their heads poking
text: into the tiny space above.
scene_heading: 84 INT. COTTAGE - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY 84 *
text: Beatrice is proud of her bed, a rough mattress on the
text: floor covered in some blankets she has probably made
dialog: herself.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 66.
scene_heading: 84 CONTINUED: 84
text: The bed takes up most of the space of the small attic.
text: They look at it together.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: A good bed, eh? For you and me.
dialog: We can have fun up here... better
dialog: than a ditch...
text: She laughs. Hector's expression lightens a little too.
text: It occurs to him to take up her offer immediately. She *
text: catches his thought, and the moment tingles happily. *
text: Then from outside they hear voices. Firstly a young Boy
dialog: calling.
speaker_heading: BOY (O.S.)
dialog: Mama, are you home?
scene_heading: 85 INT. COTTAGE - DAY 85
text: Beatrice and Hector descend back in the room. A BOY
text: of about eight and a GIRL of ten are coming in from the *
text: garden. They have been working outside. Beatrice goes
text: to embrace each of them. Hector's face is a confusion
dialog: once again.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: You were gone a long time. Who's
dialog: this?
text: The Girl eyes Hector up and down.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: This is Hector.
text: Beatrice pronounces his name with care. She stands
text: proudly by her children.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: These are my children...
text: The CREAK of a door makes Hector turn his head.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: ... and this is my mother....
text: An OLD WOMAN stands in the main doorway, smiling at
text: Hector and nodding her head. She speaks to her daughter.
speaker_heading: MOTHER (OLD WOMAN)
dialog: So... you found one, eh?
text: Hector stands, surrounded by instant family, and doesn't
text: know what to do. Eventually he speaks. *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 67. *
scene_heading: 85 CONTINUED: 85
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Is there water... to drink... to
dialog: wash?
text: He mimes with his hands. Beatrice understands that he
text: wants some breathing space. She talks to her son.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Take Hector to the well... but
dialog: come here first.
text: She takes off the dead Squire's shoes and puts them on
text: the Boy's bare feet. He is delighted. He does a little
text: dance in them before leaving with Hector.
scene_heading: 86 EXT. WELL - DAY 86
text: Hector stands at the well some way from the house.
text: Beatrice's garden is a madness of wild flowers, harvested
dialog: by her for scents and powders. She is a remarkable
text: woman, living as she does in the harsh male world of
text: her time. The scented air and the dizzy SOUNDS OF the
text: BEES almost make Hector swoon. He is experiencing the
text: full, heady impact of Beatrice, and it is summed up in
text: a full-blown pollen-filled sneeze.
text: He drinks at her well. The Boy is beside him, still
text: engrossed in his new shoes. Hector splashes some water
text: on his face and looks back at the house. He has some
dialog: decisions to make.
scene_heading: 87 INT. COTTAGE - DAY 87
text: The Mother sits by the window in the nearest thing to
text: a comfortable chair that the house has to offer. She
text: is working on some lace. Hector enters the room to
text: watch her. He smiles and stands shyly at the door. The
text: Mother thinks he wants her chair for himself. In a
text: flurry of apology she rises, drops her work and motions
dialog: for Hector to have the good seat. He is full of
dialog: embarrassment.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No, no... sit down... I just came
dialog: to watch... please... sit...
text: He guides the Mother back to the good chair. They
text: struggle comically for a while, but eventually she allows
text: Hector to settle her there. She mumbles unhappily.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 68. *
scene_heading: 87 CONTINUED: 87
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: We can't have this... this was
dialog: Arnaud's seat... it's yours
dialog: now... I can sit on the box...
text: Hector gently pacifies her.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You must sit there... look...
dialog: you need the light from the
dialog: window... it's your
dialog: seat... I don't want it... it's
dialog: yours... I can sit on the box.
text: The old woman allows herself a shy smile. Whether in
text: innocence or mischief, she has secured the best seat in
dialog: the house for herself. If he stays, Hector will never
dialog: dare rest his bones in it.
scene_heading: 88 EXT. YARD - DAY 88
text: Hector has retreated to the yard. The Girl is
text: boiling some dyes in a cauldron over an open fire. The
text: Boy is working at a basketful of flower heads, pulling
text: petals and separating the hearts, putting them in a
text: large jar of colored liquid.
text: Hector is aware of Beatrice watching him. She is
text: returning to the kitchen, firmly holding a struggling
text: chicken, wings flapping and feathers flying everywhere.
text: This chicken is making the supreme sacrifice in
text: Beatrice's final effort at total seduction, a wonderful
text: meal. Hector is guiltily aware of this as their eyes
dialog: meet briefly.
text: Hector takes in what the Boy is doing and joins in
text: the work. The Boy smiles at Hector's initial clumsiness.
text: He motions for Hector to have a sniff of the jar of
text: liquid. Hector does so. The smell is heady and pleasant.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Ah...
text: The Boy says something and points towards his sister.
text: She stands by her cauldron, stirring the bubbling liquid.
text: Hector goes to watch her work. He looks in the cauldron.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Good color... for cloth?
text: Without thinking, Hector leans over the cauldron to
text: sniff. A hideous odor assaults him. He backs off.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69. *
scene_heading: 88 CONTINUED: 88
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Ugh...
text: The Girl says something to him, and points to a bucket
text: of liquid at her feet. Hector makes out something like
text: the word "peepee."
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Peepee?
text: The Girl nods enthusiastically. The Boy is sniggering.
scene_heading: 89 INT. COTTAGE - DAY 89
text: Hector sits at the table with Beatrice and her family.
text: There is an air of awkward silence, although the Boy
text: and Girl look openly at Hector, perhaps assessing him as
dialog: a future father.
text: The meal has been served in a communal pot. In Beatrice's
text: house there is the luxury of small individual plates.
text: The others wait for Hector to begin, but he indicates
text: to the old Mother to help herself first. She does, and
text: she doesn't stop until her plate is heaped high with
text: food. There is definitely some power play going on in
text: the old woman's mind, although her face is all innocence.
text: Hector submits, taking only a modest portion of food.
text: The old Mother's appetite is prodigious. It is comical
text: to watch her little frame consume so much, quietly
text: and methodically. She is an eating machine.
text: During the meal Beatrice and Hector exchange glances. But
text: this time their talking without words is a serious affair.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Mmmm... good food....
scene_heading: 90 EXT. COTTAGE - DAY 90
text: From the kitchen Beatrice watches Hector in the garden.
text: he is making an effort to appear relaxed, but as he
text: paces here and there Beatrice knows that he is unhappy.
text: She leaves the kitchen to join him.
speaker_heading: BEATRICE
dialog: Take a walk to the village if
dialog: you want... you look as if you
dialog: need a walk...
text: Hector opens his heart to her, knowing she will understand
dialog: his feelings if not his words.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 70.
scene_heading: 90 CONTINUED: 90
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I have to leave soon. I can't
dialog: stay... it would be wrong to stay
dialog: for just a while...
scene_heading: 91 EXT. COTTAGE - DAY 91
text: It is awkward for Hector to say goodbye.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I have to go... have to keep the
dialog: sun on my back... I have to get
dialog: home... I have a family, just
dialog: like you... I like you... you *
dialog: smell good... wonderful...
text: Hector fumbles awkwardly with his bag and then walks
text: off down the track. He turns to look at Beatrice.
text: She stands outside her house for a long time, watching
text: him until he turns onto the main road and OUT OF SIGHT.
text: The pain and the awkwardness in Beatrice and Hector
text: are specific, but the scene of parting is timeless.
dialog: Is this the ten millionth such parting, or the billionth?
text: It is one of them at any rate, and a sad one.
scene_heading: 92 EXT. RIVER - DUSK 92
text: Hector has reached the river, but it is already growing
text: dark and the boatman has gone for the night. Hector
text: sees the boat, dragged out of the water.
text: He sits down against the trunk of a large tree. His *
text: eyes begin to close. *
scene_heading: 93 EXT. RAFT - MORNING 93
text: Hector awakes. He looks around him. He is on a huge *
text: raft, made of ship's timbers. We have left our previous
text: Hector sitting under his tree 400 years ago. This
text: Hector is awakening into what might be a nightmare.
text: The huge raft is many smaller rafts lashed together.
text: There are over a hundred and fifty people perched on
text: them, lying or squatting in sleep. It is early morning.
text: The sea is calm around them, but the deep ocean swell is
text: still there to remind them of their predicament, menacing,
text: like a controlled anger.
text: Hector is fully awake now, sitting against some boxes.
text: He speaks to ANDRE sitting close by.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 71.
scene_heading: 93 CONTINUED: 93
text: Andre is Hector's slave, still bound to him in service
dialog: through shipwreck and disaster. Our Hector is now a
text: master. Andre is a young Asian. A quiet, capable,
text: intelligent man, but with that same lost look in his
text: eyes that Hector had as a slave. He too is far from
dialog: home.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I had a wonderful dream. I was *
text: lying under a tree, beside a river.
dialog: I was dozing. I heard the water...
text: beautiful clear water. I got up
dialog: and drank some. I think I ate some *
text: raspberries too.
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: I would like some water.
text: Hector looks around him at the squalid mass of distressed
dialog: humanity.
speaker_heading: HECTOR *
dialog: God, this is the worst, the worst. *
text: Some figures rise and an argument takes place, like
text: a domestic squabble. We can hear some of their exchanges.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Let me keep him... they said we'll
dialog: find land in a day or so... you're
dialog: evil...
speaker_heading: MAN
text: When they're dead they go over the
dialog: side... The place stinks enough
dialog: as it is...
text: There is a flurry of movement amongst the figures, then
text: a splash, then a cry of a Woman. The noise has awakened
text: others. All over the raft figures are coming awake,
text: sitting up, taking in the new day, and the dreadful
dialog: reality of their situation.
text: Andre speaks to Hector.
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: Do you think I'll still see
dialog: Europe?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I think there's more chance of
dialog: me eating you, Andre.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 72.
scene_heading: 93 CONTINUED: (2) 93
text: The more we see of the people, their costumes, weapons,
dialog: mannerisms, the easier we will place them in their
text: time. They are survivors of a foundered ship some time
dialog: at the height of the great colonial empires. The year
text: could be 1590. The place is the Indian Ocean.
text: Hector turns his eyes to another part of the raft,
text: closer to him. He watches a man and woman. The woman,
text: URSULA, still has her eyes closed, sleeping on a pile of
text: canvas. The man, FRANCISCO, stands beside her holding
text: a cloak over her to protect her from sea spray. His eye
text: catches Hector's, and they hold each other's gaze for a
text: long time. There is antipathy but also pain in their
dialog: look. *
text: A man, DOM PAULO, moves among the waking wretches. He
text: speaks with authority.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: I think today will be the day,
dialog: my friends. We've been in the
text: inshore currents since yesterday.
text: Three crowns to the first one to
dialog: sight the coast. God preserve us
dialog: all.
text: Someone speaks from under a crude canvas shelter.
speaker_heading: SAILOR
dialog: Never mind the three crowns... a
dialog: side of beef would do... or a drink
dialog: of clean water.
text: Dom Paulo strides off to his station by the makeshift
dialog: rudder.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Don't worry, there'll be food for
dialog: all ashore. Africa's full of
text: meat and drink.
speaker_heading: SAILOR
dialog: It's full of Africans too.
scene_heading: 94 EXT. RAFT - DAY 94
text: The sun is up, and Dom Paulo was right. The raft is
text: now standing off-shore riding out the heavy ocean surf
text: before finally beaching. The strong are helping to row
text: ashore, under the shouted instructions of the NAVIGATOR.
text: Those too weak to help are huddled beside their posses-
text: sions, hoping to survive this final trial of the sea.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 73.
scene_heading: 94 CONTINUED: 94
text: Hector works his oar with the rest. He has time to cast
text: a glance at Ursula and Francisco. Francisco in his
text: manic-heroic way manages to row while at the same time
text: trying to offer a steadying arm to Ursula.
text: If Hector had time or energy to laugh, he would.
text: The raft is in the full rage of the surf. The sense
text: behind its loose construction is obvious now. Snake-like
text: it rides the waves, one half up, the other down. The
text: beaching isn't easy. A few people are washed overboard
text: with no way of saving them. Finally the raft makes it
text: through the barrier of the outer surf. They are in a
text: long curving bay. Up from the beach lies an area of *
text: dunes, and beyond that a thick belt of jungle.
text: The raft scrapes onto the sand. Those near the beach
text: scramble ashore, immediately prostrating themselves in
text: prayers of thanks while those at the back jump into
text: the water and clumsily wade the last few feet to safety.
text: Hector's attention is never far from Ursula. She is *
text: struggling in the water with some of her baggage. A
text: youth, NUNO, goes to help her. Hector overtakes him and
text: nudges him out of the way, offering to take Ursula's load
text: from her shoulders. She refuses his help. Waist-deep in *
text: water they tussle over her bundle of possessions. Hector *
text: overpowers her, wrestles her load from her grasp, angrily
text: wades to the shore and dumps it on the sand. In amongst
text: the drama of their situation their little battle of wills
text: seems petty and pathetic, but it reveals much about their
dialog: past.
dialog: *
text: Soon the survivors are dragging their possessions from
text: the raft. They have managed to hoard a surprising amount
text: from their doomed ship. Carpets, chests, chairs, all
text: are dragged ashore.
scene_heading: 95 EXT. CAMP - DAY 95
text: Civilization has taken hold quickly in this little corner
text: of Africa. Dom Paulo, the leader, already has a table
text: and chair set up in the sand, and behind him SAILORS are
text: erectig a tent-like house, made from timbers and rich
text: tapestries and carpets. The others are making their own
text: shelters all along the beach. A regular little community
text: is taking shape, a crazy, rich-textured village decked out
text: in all the colors of the East. The silks and ginghams
dialog: that were destined for the finest halls in Europe now give
text: shelter to sick slaves, starving sailors, ruined traders
text: and grieving mothers.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 74. *
scene_heading: 95 CONTINUED: 95
text: Some of the survivors have recovered sufficiently from
text: the trauma of near death to mark out the boundaries of
text: their new beach homes with lines of stones. The habits
dialog: of ownership die hardest of all.
text: Although Dom Paulo is the man in authority he is also a
text: man in deep shock. Most of what he has earned or
text: plundered in his colonial years now lies at the bottom
dialog: of the ocean. Since he is socially superior to anyone
text: else on the ship he assumes responsibility and command.
text: There are probably fifty men among the survivors more
dialog: suited to lead them to safety.
text: By Dom Paulo's side always is his SON. A quiet boy of
text: about eleven. He is like a little miniature of his
text: father, dressed in the same style of clothes. He is a
text: constant, silent witness to everything that Dom Paulo does,
text: good or bad, wise or foolish. He and his father are a
dialog: continuing fascination for Hector, and we can enjoy
text: Hector watching the boy watching his father. Some of the
dialog: absurdities and comedies of the situation can be high-
text: lighted in this way. There can be sadness in it too
text: however, the pain of a son witnessing his father's
text: compromises or failures all too closely, and Dom Paulo's
text: sad awareness of his image slowly tarnishing in his
text: son's eyes.
text: Amidst the construction work, Dom Paulo is talking with
text: some of his OFFICERS.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: How many made it?
speaker_heading: OFFICER
text: Eighty men. Ten women. Eighteen
text: children and forty-five slaves.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Two parties of ten men each... one
dialog: to the north and one to the south...
dialog: bring back what you can... game,
dialog: fruit, anything... and send someone
dialog: back as soon as you find fresh
dialog: water. Any trouble, discharge
text: three shots.
text: The Officer leaves to carry out his orders. Dom Paulo
text: addresses another of his men, Da Cunha.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 75.
scene_heading: 95 CONTINUED: (2) 95
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Have the carpenter start
text: immediately on a cross, a big
dialog: one... Father Diogo wants a
dialog: place of worship by this time
dialog: tomorrow. We'll look for a
dialog: spot later. We've all got a lot
dialog: of praying to do. And where's
dialog: Dias... tell him I want to see
dialog: him.
scene_heading: 96 EXT. CAMP - DAY 96
text: Hector and Andre are walking through the half-built
text: village. Andre is carrying Hector's possessions, a
text: rolled-up carpet and a bolt of colorful cloth. We feel
text: an echo of the days when Hector was a slave, walking
text: two paces behind with his master's possessions.
text: Hector finds what he is looking for. Francisco is
text: working on a shelter for himself and Ursula, with the
text: help of some slaves. Hector approaches him, making
text: another attempt to heal wounds from his past.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I have a carpet and some cloth...
dialog: I thought if we worked together
dialog: we could make a better shelter...
text: Francisco barely stops his work to reply.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: If it's a joke it's a poor one. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: At least ask Dona Ursula...
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: I don't have to ask her... I know
dialog: she would agree with me... leave us
dialog: alone.
text: His stubborn rejection of Hector reveals just how
dialog: strong their friendship once was.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well... would you take my cloth,
dialog: at least?
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Keep it and build your own hovel
dialog: somewhere else... leave us
dialog: alone...!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 76.
scene_heading: 96 CONTINUED: 96
text: Then from along the beach the sound of RAISED VOICES
text: distracts them. They see some figures, laden with
text: supplies, running off into the forest. Others are
text: following them, discharging MUSKETS, shouting for the
text: DESERTERS to stop. Hector and Francisco walk briskly
text: in the direction of the trouble. They see two of the
text: Deserters being overtaken by their pursuers. The rest
text: make their escape into the jungle.
scene_heading: 97 EXT. CAMP - DAY 97
text: Hector and Francisco reach Dom Paulo's office in the
text: sand. The leading citizens are gathering there as
text: the two captured Deserters are brought in.
speaker_heading: SAILOR
text: They ran off with the dry bread... *
dialog: about eight of them, sir... *
text: Dom Paulo looks at the two prisoners.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: You men are deserters. You will
dialog: die tomorrow.
text: He speaks again to the Sailor.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Chain them on the raft for tonight,
dialog: and watch them...
text: Francisco steps forward, outraged.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: I must object... these sentences
dialog: can't be lawful...
text: Dom Paulo's authoritative manner vanishes in an instant.
text: He becomes hesitant, unsure of himself. As always, his *
text: Son watches every detail of the exchange. *
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Do you think so?
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Of course... we can't allow
dialog: ourselves to fall into terror
dialog: and violence...
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: You're right... but then how can
dialog: we punish them? We can't lock them
dialog: up...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 77.
scene_heading: 97 CONTINUED: 97
text: Dom Paulo looks around at the assembled notables,
text: confused, out of his depth. Other opinions are voiced.
speaker_heading: SALGADO
dialog: You were right the first time,
dialog: sir... they must hang... they were
dialog: stealing the bread from our
dialog: mouths...
text: The captured Deserters look on helplessly as their lives
text: are argued over.
scene_heading: YOUNG DESERTER
dialog: I didn't steal any bread... Gomes
dialog: had the bread... he's off, in the
dialog: forest...
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Oh dear...
text: Dom Paulo turns to the Priest.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: What do you think, Father?
text: The Priest throws open his arms noncommittally.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: I'll comfort them whether they
dialog: live or die, now or later, any of
dialog: you, all of you... I'll comfort
dialog: you all.
speaker_heading: SALGADO
dialog: Hang them... you have to set an
dialog: example...
text: Dom Paulo is deeply confused.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: So I was right the first time?
text: Francisco confuses him even more.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: No, sir... there must be proper
dialog: justice...
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: What's proper justice? *
speaker_heading: DESERTER
dialog: I didn't steal any bread...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 78. *
scene_heading: 97 CONTINUED: (2) 97
speaker_heading: SALGADO
dialog: You have to make a decision, sir.
speaker_heading: DESERTER
dialog: It was Gomes... he told us to run.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: I'll decide... no I won't... we'll
dialog: all decide... most of the people
dialog: that matter are here... we'll have
dialog: a vote... who agrees with
dialog: Salgado... and me... that they
dialog: should die?
text: A lot of hands go up. Hector hesitates, his instincts
dialog: are not for killing. But the force of the majority
text: weighs on him. He starts to raise his hand. At that
text: moment, as he scans the crowd, he meets the eyes of the
text: Deserter whose death they are voting on. For a moment
text: they communicate. Hector is thrown. He drops his hand,
text: only to find in the next instant the stern gaze of
text: Salgado on him. He hesitates again, then starts to
text: raise his hand. Then the eyes of the Deserter find him
text: once more. This comic pantomime goes on while a solid
text: majority of the crowd firmly raise their hands.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: ... and those against death...
text: One of the Deserters raises his own hand meekly.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: You can't vote...
text: Then he looks to Salgado.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Can he?
speaker_heading: SALGADO
dialog: It doesn't matter.
text: Then the other Deserter raises his hand too.
speaker_heading: SALGADO
dialog: I don't think this is working,
dialog: Dom Paulo... we need authority...
dialog: you must decide...
dialog: Dom Paulo thinks.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Very well... Da Cunha?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 79.
scene_heading: 97 CONTINUED: (3) 97
text: DA CUNHA steps forward.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: The cross the carpenter is
dialog: working on... tell him to turn
dialog: it into a scaffold... have it
text: erected along the beach, away
dialog: from the women... the executions
dialog: will be at sunrise tomorrow. Tell
dialog: Father Diogo.
text: He turns to the Sailors holding the Deserters.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Take them to the raft.
text: The dazed Deserters are led off. Dom Paulo's face clouds
text: in doubt again.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Everyone in agreement with hanging? *
dialog: Or should we shoot them... or what?
speaker_heading: DA CUNHA
dialog: Hanging is fine, sir.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Very well... now... who's going
dialog: to conduct the executions... should
dialog: we pick someone, or have a
dialog: volunteer...
text: Dom Paulo looks over the faces of the men. He stops at
dialog: Hector.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Hector?
text: Hector doesn't have the will to accept or the courage to *
text: refuse. He is saved by another young man, ALVAREZ, eager
dialog: to prove himself.
speaker_heading: ALVAREZ
dialog: I'll do it, Dom Paulo.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Thank you, Alvarez. Sunrise
dialog: tomorrow. Send the Priest to
dialog: them tonight.
text: We can sense the feeling of relief in Hector. Dom *
dialog: Paulo's son has been a silent witness to everything that *
text: has happened, but his blank face reveals nothing of his *
dialog: feelings. *
dialog: 80.
scene_heading: 98 EXT. CAMP - EVENING 98
text: It is growing dark. Fires are being lit outside the
text: shelters. Andre is building Hector's tent while Hector
text: watches him. The tent is only large enough for one
text: person, and somehow looks mean compared with the others.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Good work, Andre.
text: He looks across to the well-made shelter of Ursula and
text: Francisco. Ursula herself works at the fire.
dialog: *
text: Hector turns to Andre.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You go and sleep by the big fire,
dialog: Andre. Keep warm.
text: Andre leaves.
scene_heading: 99 INT. CAMP - NIGHT 99
text: Hector goes inside his little house. He puts his back
text: to the entrance and opens the canvas sack which contains
text: all his possessions. He pulls out his prize, a sizeable
text: chunk of bread and some dried fruit. He guiltily gnaws
text: at the hard bread.
text: He is surprised by the sound of the boy, Nuno outside.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: Senor Hector?
text: Hector quickly stows his food back into his sack, and
text: with a grunt of irritation sticks his head out of the
dialog: shelter.
text: Nuno is holding four fruits, about the size of large
text: apples, but green and thick-skinned.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: This was all they found in the
dialog: forest. Four for each of us.
dialog: They taste kind of milky, but
dialog: sour.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Thank you, Nuno.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: My mother ate three and she was
dialog: sick. So try two... but she's
dialog: sick anyway... maybe you can try
dialog: three...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 81.
scene_heading: 99 CONTINUED: 99
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'll start with two.
text: Nuno makes to leave, but then hesitates.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: Hector, will you help me?
text: Nuno is looking down the beach to the remains of the
text: raft on the shoreline. The shapes of the two Deserters
text: chained there can just be seen.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: Lopo... the boy they're going to
dialog: hang tomorrow... he was cook's
dialog: cabin boy... I was going to take *
dialog: him something to eat... I thought,
dialog: perhaps, one of yours and one of
dialog: mine...
text: He looks at the fruit he has just given Hector.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: You said you might just eat two...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: But there's tomorrow, Nuno... we
dialog: must eat tomorrow too...
text: Nuno looks disappointed. His eyes turn again to his
text: playmate tied to the raft.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Dom Paulo would call it a waste.
dialog: You must keep yourself strong, Nuno,
dialog: that's what he'd say... so that you
dialog: can help the others... God knows
dialog: what we have ahead of us... we'll
dialog: need strong people like you...
text: Nuno is silent, unconvinced.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Try not to think about Lopo any
dialog: more... The guards wouldn't let
dialog: you near him anyway.
text: Nuno stomps away in silence. Hector shouts after him
text: cheerily.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Goodnight!
dialog: 82. *
scene_heading: 100 INT. CAMP - NIGHT 100
text: In the privacy of their tent Dom Paulo and his son are
text: engaged in their nightly ritual, practicing on their
text: recorders. Dom Paulo leads the young boy through an
text: intricate, pretty tune. They sit formally and there is
text: an air of stoicism about them, determined as they are
dialog: to maintain their civilized habits in these bleakest of
text: circumstances. But there is also a feeling of madness
text: about it. The madness of a man who has lost a grip of
text: what is going on about him. Down on the beach men are
text: waiting to die in the morning on his orders. The blend
text: of formality and madness make the scene comic.
scene_heading: 101 EXT. CAMP - DAWN 101
text: The sun has risen sharply, soaring out of the ocean. It
text: blinds the eyes of those in the little execution party
text: making their way along the beach.
text: The cross-cum-scaffold has been erected some way from the
text: camp. Most people are attending to their morning
text: chores with one eye on the grim act of justice being
text: carried out along the shore.
text: Our view of the hangings will be from the distance of the
text: camp; marionette figures, men dancing on ropes, the form-
text: ality of legal death. The priest and the executioners.
text: It takes a while for the people in the camp to become
text: aware of the other observers up on the dunes. Three
text: figures stand in full view, boldly, silently, watching
text: the camp and the pantomime at the scaffold.
text: The word passes around the camp. Eyes pass between the
text: executions and the tall natives watching. The first man
text: is already dangling on the rope by the time that Dom Paulo
text: and his officers are discussing the appearance of the
dialog: natives.
speaker_heading: DA CUNHA
dialog: Some gunpowder would scatter them,
dialog: sir.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: No, they might want to be
dialog: friendly... they'll have food
dialog: too... get one of our African
dialog: slaves... we must try and talk to
dialog: them... If they think we're timid
dialog: we're dead.
dialog: 83.
scene_heading: 102 EXT. DUNES - DAWN 102
text: A solitary SLAVE makes his way up from the camp to the
text: natives on the dunes. Everyone in the camp watches as he
text: approaches them. There is tension. Will the natives run
text: or fight or talk. They begin to talk. The natives seem
text: most interested in the hangings, and point in that
text: direction, asking questions. The Slave makes an attempt
text: at explaining what is happening, but the natives seem
text: baffled. They start laughing and shaking their heads.
text: By now the second figure is dangling on the rope, the
text: cross making an efficient double-gallows.
scene_heading: 103 EXT. CAMP - DAWN 103
text: While Francisco's attention has been on the natives,
text: Hector has sidled up to him, still hoping to ingratiate
text: himself. He talks while they watch the two events, the
text: hanging and the meeting.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I hate it when people have to die. *
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: It's foolishness. Killing our
dialog: own men when we have the whole of
dialog: Africa to face.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's foolish squabbling at all.
dialog: We should be friends.
text: Francisco looks at him for the meaning in what he is
text: saying. Hector shrugs. He takes a small bundle from
text: his jacket and gives it to Francisco.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: Some bread and raisins.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: I thought everything was shared
text: out on the raft...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well this wasn't. It's for her...
dialog: and you.
text: Francisco looks Hector straight in the eye, looking for
text: his angle. But this time there is none. Hector is
text: simply a lonely man seeking to retrieve lost friendship.
text: There is a glimmer of sympathy in Francisco's face.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: 103 CONTINUED: 103
text: On the high dunes the Slave and the natives have now
text: parted company. The Deserters still spin at the end of
text: their ropes, the Priest praying at their feet.
text: Francisco walks away from him. Hector calls out.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I must speak to her!
scene_heading: 104 EXT. CAMP - DAY 104
text: The Slave approaches Dom Paulo outside his tent.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: They want to make a visit here...
dialog: with their King... he will bring
dialog: gifts, and will receive gifts.
dialog: They said not to sacrifice anymore *
dialog: men for them... they don't like
dialog: that...
text: Dom Paulo and the others laugh.
scene_heading: 105 EXT. BAY - DAY 105
text: The tide is sweeping more wreckage into the bay. Barrels
text: and boxes and timber bob in the waves. People make their
dialog: way to the shoreline to retrieve these new gifts from the
dialog: sea. *
text: The whole of the camp is eager and shouting. They bring *
text: in the boxes and barrels. A whole harmonium is man-
text: handled ashore. Some boys drag it up onto dry sand and
text: start to work its bellows. At first only water spurts
text: from it, but then a watery note or two is emitted. The
text: mood soon becomes festive. Dom Paulo makes his way down *
text: to the shore to make the celebrations official. *
text: By now the first of the newly-arrived crates are being
text: opened. Inside are eggs, many, many large eggs, in
text: crate after crate.
text: An OFFICER brings the first of the eggs to Dom Paulo.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Turtles' eggs, sir... Doctor Correa
dialog: was shipping them to the Royal
dialog: Zoo... I think they hoped some of
dialog: them would hatch.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Well... it's eggs for supper
dialog: tonight... for everyone... *
dialog: 85.
scene_heading: 106 EXT. CAMP - DUSK 106
text: That night everyone does eat turtles' eggs. At their
text: fires in the dusk they fry them, boil them, scramble
text: them. Some eat them raw. The abundant green fruits
text: make a tolerable side dish. The happy mood of the
text: afternoon has survived into the night. For once there
dialog: is enough to eat, and the hangings are a thing of the
text: past. Above the ROAR of the constantly rolling SURF
text: the CROAKY sounds of the waterlogged HARMONIUM can be
dialog: heard. *
scene_heading: 107 INT. HECTOR'S TENT - DUSK 107
text: Sadly for Hector, the harmonium enthusiast is very close
text: to his shelter. The JANGLY MUSIC is loud and insistent.
text: Hector removes six large eggs from a bag and takes them
text: outside to his fire.
scene_heading: 108 EXT. CAMP - DUSK 108
text: Andre is there eating the last of his omelette.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How are they?
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: Good.
text: Hector cracks one of his eggs into a copper pan. Inside *
text: is a brown smudge of dried yoke and some dust. Hector *
text: grunts in annoyance and cracks another egg. The yoke is
text: discolored and the smell is rank. Hector looks at Andre,
text: rapidly finishing his omelette before Hector can demand *
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yours were fine?
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: Yes.
text: Hector picks up a third egg and shakes itclose to his
text: ear. It seems as empty as the other two. He picks up
text: a fourth egg and cracks it open. A small dried-up, half-
text: formed baby turtle RATTLES into the pan. Andre is
text: quietly enjoying Hector's frustration. He stands up to
dialog: leave.
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: Good night.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 86. *
scene_heading: 108 CONTINUED: 108
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Have you any eggs left?
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: The slaves only got three. I want
dialog: to ask you something.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You were lucky. What?
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: I want my real name back.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You don't like Andre anymore?
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: I think of my home all the time.
dialog: I want to hear the name they call
dialog: me. We should die with our real
dialog: names.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We're not going to die, Andre...
text: Hector smiles at his own insensitivity.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I've forgotten your name...
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: Ketabomago Pululo.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Now I remember why we called you
dialog: Andre.
text: Andre looks at him expectantly.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I will, Andre... I promise... I'll
dialog: call you that... when I remember...
text: Andre is satisfied, and leaves. Hector calls to him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Good night... Keta...
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: Ketabomago Pululo...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes... good night...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 87.
scene_heading: 108 CONTINUED: (2) 108
text: Hector is alone. Hector gives up on the eggs and pulls *
text: out his store of bread and fruit from the tent. The *
text: next source of annoyance is the continuing noise of the
scene_heading: HARMONIUM.
text: He shouts across to the musical enthusiast, a YOUTH
text: with a few older children by his side.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hey! Stop that, will you? Think
dialog: of the older people, and the
dialog: sick... I'll give you an egg if *
dialog: you stop... here...
dialog: *
scene_heading: 109 EXT. CAMP - NEXT MORNING 109
text: The Officers and Dom Paulo are selecting items for barter *
text: from their crates and boxes of valuables. Hector and
text: other notables are also there.
text: Cheap goods, a box of rosaries and crucifixes made of *
text: common beads, for example, are being gone through and
dialog: suitable junk selected for gifts.
text: They talk as they work.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: How many are sick?
speaker_heading: DA CUNHA
dialog: About fifty, sir, some of them
dialog: very sick indeed. It's the eggs.
text: A couple of the crates were full of *
dialog: rotten ones, but eaten just the *
dialog: same. Others just ate too many.
dialog: It would have been better to ration
dialog: them, I suppose.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: How wise of you to think of that
dialog: now. Any deaths?
speaker_heading: DA CUNHA
dialog: Six.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: How many eggs did you have?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 88.
scene_heading: 109 CONTINUED: 109
speaker_heading: DA CUNHA
dialog: Three. I had them boiled.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: I had four. I don't feel well
dialog: now...
speaker_heading: DA CUNHA
dialog: Four's all right... the really ill
dialog: ones had eaten eight, ten...
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Let's not think about it... what *
dialog: have you got? *
text: Salgado comes forward with a handful of the broken
text: remains of a kettle. Copper is a useful currency.
speaker_heading: SALGADO
dialog: It worked well... they'll go for
dialog: this... and nails... Luis cleaned
text: up a sackful from the crates...
text: Salgado shows a handful of nails from a small sack in his
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Organize some men to gather all *
dialog: the nails they can find. We have
dialog: to keep control of that particular
dialog: currency.
text: Dom Paulo rummages in a box of cheap rosaries, selects a
text: couple, and then retires to his tent. The others work
text: on at the table. Hector drifts off down to the beach.
scene_heading: 110 INT. DOM PAULO'S TENT - MORNING 110
text: Inside his tent Dom Paulo goes to his small mirror. He
text: takes off the heavy silver chain and medallion from
text: around his neck, and a valuable brooch from his coat. He
text: stows them safely in a locked box and replaces it in its
text: hiding place in the sand floor. Then he adorns himself
text: in the cheap rosary and other trashy items. Dom Paulo, *
text: catching sight of his watching Son in the mirror, holds *
text: a silencing finger to his mouth. *
scene_heading: 111 EXT. BEACH - MORNING 111
text: Hector is walking along the beach, close to a pile of *
text: discarded boxes and crates.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: 111 CONTINUED: 111
text: He quickly searches through them. He soon finds what he *
text: is looking for, a piece of wood with some nails still
text: attached to it. He pulls out the nails and pockets them,
text: then continues to rummage amongst the wood for more.
text: Hector is a survivor. And not the first Hector to
text: scavenge on a beach, in a world that feels big and empty.
scene_heading: 112 EXT. DUNES - MORNING 112
text: Hector is enjoying the freshness of the day. We see *
text: him climb over a dune and then as he nears the summit
text: duck and retreat down the slope again. Cautiously he
text: crawls up the dune and looks over to the other side.
text: He is watching a young Girl and the boy Nuno. They are
text: twelve or thirteen years old. They are coyly in the
text: early stages of making love, the Boy lying close to the
text: Girl, kissing her, beginning to caress her. Their *
text: love-making is poised oddly between child's play and *
dialog: eroticism. It's their day of discovery and it is like
text: a dream of love.
text: The Boy is just about to discover some more and is
text: fumbling with the Girl's clothing, when he looks up and
text: catches sight of Hector. Hector ducks down but knows he
text: has been seen and decides to brazen it out. He stands
text: up in full view of them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Stop that... leave her alone...
dialog: get back to the camp... or I'll tell
dialog: your mother... how can you play like
dialog: this when there are people needing
dialog: your help back there...?
text: The Boy is standing now and fixing his clothing. He walks
text: off back to the camp. The Girl remains sitting in the
text: sand, buttoning her dress, too embarrassed even to raise
text: her head to Hector.
text: Then Hector is touched by something, perhaps the sad stoop
text: in the Boy's shoulder or the Girl's lowered head. Hector
text: realizes he has broken something precious and in their
text: circumstances infinitely fragile and irretrievable. He
text: feels like an oaf. He calls after the Boy.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Come back... I didn't mean it...
dialog: it was a joke... you come back...
dialog: she's still here... I won't say
dialog: anything...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: 112 CONTINUED: 112
text: But the Boy walks on, turning around now and then to look
text: at Hector, who feels foolish and mean. Hector calls down
dialog: to the Girl.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm sorry.
text: But she doesn't look up, still fumbling with her buttons.
text: Hector curses quietly and looks out across the dunes,
text: angry with himself. Then he sees the procession of the *
text: Native King and his people, some cattle, and porters
text: carrying baskets.
text: Hector runs off towards the camp.
scene_heading: 113 EXT. CLEARING - DAY 113
dialog: The meeting of the two leaders is weird and wonderful *
text: to see. The ragged Europeans, already scanning the *
text: baskets of the Natives for signs of solid food,
text: somehow still muster an absurd sense of their own *
dialog: importance for the occasion. The Natives, excited and *
text: curious, trying to contain their exuberance so that they *
dialog: don't miss a single detail of this most significant
text: day. Many of the Natives have climbed into the trees, *
text: either out of timidity or to get a better view *
text: The trees around the meeting place are dripping with
text: bodies, like human fruit.
text: Hector slips into the crowd as the NATIVE KING is in
text: mid-speech. When he has stopped talking the Slave begins
text: to haltingly translate.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: He was excited when he heard you
dialog: had come, but he wants to know
dialog: if you are real people... he
dialog: didn't think you would be such
dialog: a strange color... so he wants
dialog: to see your...
text: He points repeatedly at his navel. *
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: ... so that he will know that you
dialog: were born like real people...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 91.
scene_heading: 113 CONTINUED: 113
text: Dom Paulo won't suffer the indignity alone. He talks to
text: the Officers standing closest to him.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Right... you four as well...
text: He begins to open up his coat and shirt. The four
text: Officers do the same. The King and a few of his atten-
text: dants take a step or two forward and peer at the exposed
text: white European bellies. They look at one another and
text: mumble solemnly. Then they step back. Dom Paulo and the
text: Officers fix their clothing and re-muster their dignity.
text: The King is enjoying himself. He speaks again to the
text: Slave, who then translates.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: He wants to see you breathe.
text: The King takes a deep breath, then nods to Dom Paulo.
text: Dom Paulo and the Officers do as they are told. The King
text: joins them, and for a few moments there is a kind of
text: communion between them. Then everyone joins in. It is a *
text: strange, poignant moment, all the Natives and all the
text: Europeans united in the simple act of breathing.
text: Dom Paulo regains his composure. He speaks to the Slave.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Tell him that we want to trade
dialog: with him, to buy food... and we
dialog: want him to guide us out of here...
dialog: we have a long way to travel... to
dialog: where the white men have their
dialog: big ships...
text: The Slave speaks to the King. The King listens and talks
text: back for a long time. Then the Slave translates again.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: He has heard of white men very, *
dialog: very far away... this way...
dialog: but you have to cross many rivers...
dialog: twenty big rivers...
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Tell him I want to give him these...
text: Dom Paulo steps forward to the King. An Officer brings *
text: a wrapped cloth. Dom Paulo opens it, letting the King
text: see the pieces of broken copper inside.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 92.
scene_heading: 113 CONTINUED: (2) 113
text: The Officer produces a handful of large nails and
text: gives them directly to the King. The King nods his
text: head in approval and shows the nails to his attendants.
text: They are impressed.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: ... and tell him that I want to
dialog: make him a very special gift as
dialog: one King to another...
text: Various Officers raise their eyebrows at this.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Of these precious things, which my
dialog: fathers and forefathers have worn
dialog: for many long years before...
text: Dom Paulo solemnly and without a blush removes the cheap
text: rosary from around his neck and offers it to the King.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: I shouldn't do this, but it is
dialog: such a special occasion, and he is
dialog: such a great and worthy King...
text: This is translated. The King refuses to accept the *
text: rosary. Instead he is pointing to a couple of chunky
text: and valuable-looking rings on Dom Paulo's fingers which
text: he has forgotten to remove.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: He says he could not accept such
dialog: a treasured gift, something of
dialog: such value to your family...
dialog: instead he would be happy to take
dialog: one or two of the old rings you have
dialog: on your fingers... but please do
dialog: not insist that he take your
dialog: necklace...
text: It is impossible to know if the King is being naively
dialog: polite or hugely clever. Dom Paulo's Officers enjoy a
text: muted titter as he peels off his precious rings and
text: gives them to the King, replacing the worthless baubles
text: around his own neck. The King begins talking again.
dialog: The Slave translates.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: He will give you guides to help *
dialog: you across the first of the big
dialog: rivers... it is ten days from
dialog: here...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 93.
scene_heading: 113 CONTINUED: (3) 113
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Thank you, thank you...
text: The Slave continues.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: ... and he asks you to be ready
dialog: to leave the beach in two days
dialog: time... he cannot permit you to
dialog: stay longer...
text: Dom Paulo looks shocked.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: Because with the new moon the
dialog: turtles will arrive and lay
dialog: their eggs... you may frighten
dialog: them... you must be gone...
text: The mention of turtles' eggs almost turns the stomachs
text: of most of the survivors, even the fit ones.
text: The King and his followers walk back into the forest. *
text: Soon the survivors are alone again, with the lost-
text: looking cow the Natives have left. A doomed cow if
dialog: ever there was.
scene_heading: 114 EXT. BEACH - EVENING 114
text: The remains of the cow hang on the spit over the large
text: fire the survivors have made on the beach. Small groups
text: of people sit around it, gnawing on the roasted flesh.
text: The image is once again timeless, the elements of it
dialog: simple; man, fire, flesh, food.
text: One cow doesn't go far between a hundred starving people.
text: Some are still on their feet by the large fire. Now and
text: then a hand will dart out over the flames to snatch a
text: bone hanging loose or a tasty-looking piece of gristle.
text: They are the survivors of the pack, if any will be.
text: Hector is, of course, among them. He risks the searing
text: heat to pull at a couple of blackened bones. He sees
text: Nuno, the boy he chased away from the Girl earlier in
text: the day. Nuno is sitting by himself, staring vacantly
text: at the fire, licking his fingers.
text: Hector sits down in the sand beside him. Nuno hardly
text: notices him until Hector offers him one of his bones.
text: Nuno grabs it.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 94.
scene_heading: 114 CONTINUED: 114
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Suck out the marrow... it's the
dialog: best bit.
text: Nuno follows Hector's example. Hector allows him to
text: feel the benefit of his gift before he starts to talk.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm sorry about today...
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: It doesn't matter...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: But it does... it was mean of
dialog: me... I was upset at something...
dialog: I wasn't really angry at you...
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: I know.
text: Nuno is taking it rather well. Hector regains his
dialog: natural self-confidence. *
dialog: *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You don't think too badly of me?
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You still like me?
text: Nuno shyly nods his head.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You do?
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: Yes.
text: Hector is satisfied now.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well, that makes me feel better...
dialog: we all have to like each other...
dialog: and respect each other... that's
dialog: important too.
text: They are silent for a moment.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: If you don't respect me, just
dialog: say so...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 95.
scene_heading: 114 CONTINUED: (2) 114
text: Nuno looks at him, smiling weakly. Then he turns away
text: in silence. Hector tries another approach to win the
dialog: Boy over.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I have a boy like you... maybe *
dialog: you could meet him when we get
dialog: home...
text: This doesn't produce much of a response. Hector tries
text: again. He starts to chuckle to himself and nudges Nuno
text: in the ribs.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You can take her back there
dialog: tomorrow, eh?
text: Nuno shakes his head.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: No... she's sick now...
scene_heading: 115 EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 115
text: Dom Paulo and the Priest and some of the Officers are
text: having a more formal meal at Dom Paulo's table outside
text: his shelter. An argument is in progress between Dom
text: Paulo and GASPAR DIAS, the navigator.
text: Gasper Dias has drawn a rough map which lies on the
dialog: table.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Can't you be more accurate?
text: Hector comes to the meeting. He sits down on a box
text: near the table and watches and listens, his expression
text: changing with the shifts in mood of the others. This *
dialog: is Hector the social animal, our Hector with his pockets *
text: full of stolen nails and his tent full of stashes of
dialog: food.
speaker_heading: DIAS
dialog: How can I be accurate without
dialog: instruments? As it is I'm
text: sighting the sun with two pieces
dialog: of wood... Call it five hundred
dialog: and be done with it... he said *
dialog: twenty rivers. *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 96.
scene_heading: 115 CONTINUED: 115
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: We just want you to be as accurate
dialog: as we know you can be, Dias. After
dialog: all, the ship did manage to find
dialog: that rock with admirable precision.
speaker_heading: DIAS
dialog: Confound you, Dom Paulo, that's an
dialog: insult... she hit that rock because
dialog: she was taking water and
text: unsteerable... She was overloaded
dialog: before she left India and you know
dialog: it....
text: Dias pounds his fist on the table.
speaker_heading: DIAS
dialog: I've told you... we vote for a *
dialog: leader or you can walk into the
dialog: jungle on your own... it should
dialog: have been done days ago...
speaker_heading: DA CUNHA
dialog: Calm down, Dias... you can't stay
dialog: here forever, living on turtles'
dialog: eggs...
text: There are mock groans and laughter at the thought of it.
text: The tension for the moment is broken. *
speaker_heading: DA CUNHA
dialog: What about the sick and the
dialog: injured, Dom Paulo...?
text: Dom Paulo lets out a heavy sigh.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: I've discussed it with Father
dialog: Diogo... I don't see how a hundred
dialog: of us can carry seventy sick...
speaker_heading: FATHER DIOGO
dialog: I'm going to search the scriptures
dialog: tonight. I'm sure that God has
text: an answer to it.
speaker_heading: DIAS
dialog: An excuse, you mean... we'll be
dialog: leaving them here to die...
speaker_heading: SALGADO
dialog: Oh, so you're coming with us now,
dialog: Dias!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 97.
scene_heading: 115 CONTINUED: (2) 115
text: Dias mumbles to himself.
speaker_heading: DIAS
dialog: After the vote...
speaker_heading: FATHER DIOGO
dialog: It might be the best we can offer
dialog: them now... the chance to die a
dialog: good Christian death here, and set
dialog: an example to the heathens...
scene_heading: 116 EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 116
text: Hector is making his way in the dark back to his shelter.
text: He passes close to the tent of Francisco and Ursula.
text: Francisco is outside, by the fire. An impulse takes
text: Hector to join him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'll be glad when we're on the
dialog: move... the sound of the sea is
dialog: driving me mad.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Good night, Hector...
text: Hector lingers.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Where is Ursula? Sleeping?
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
text: Sick. She hasn't been able to
dialog: rise since yesterday.
dialog: *
text: Hector's face expresses his shock. From what he has
text: heard at the meeting this is serious news. He makes a
text: decision. He speaks to Francisco, willing their old
dialog: friendship back into existence in the urgency of the
dialog: moment.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Will you share a bottle of wine
dialog: with me? I've had it since we
dialog: left the ship... I want to drink
dialog: it tonight, with you.
text: This offer has found a chink in Francisco's armor.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: You have a bottle of wine?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 98. *
scene_heading: 116 CONTINUED: 116
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Well, fetch it.
scene_heading: 117 EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 117
text: Hector has returned with his precious bottle. Francisco
text: by some miracle has two fine crystal glasses. As they
text: drink they begin to reveal a hint of their old intimacy.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: You should hang for this. Some
dialog: people on the raft might have
dialog: lived with a glass of this in
dialog: their stomach...
text: Francisco sips the wine with the relish of long
dialog: abstinence.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I know. I feel very guilty. I
dialog: brought this too...
text: Hector pulls a cotton bag from under his coat.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Honeyed fruit. The last I have.
text: Francisco can't believe such food still exits. He
text: smiles in anticipation.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: You rogue... give it here...
text: Francisco grabs at the bag and stuffs two or three
text: sweets into his mouth, not so much the gentleman now.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I brought it for Ursula...
text: Francisco talks through his munching.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Much too rich for her... do you want
dialog: to kill her?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Surely... some fruit couldn't...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99.
scene_heading: 117 CONTINUED: 117
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Don't argue with me, old friend...
dialog: you're the guilty one around here,
dialog: and don't you forget it.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Why is it always me? Why am I
dialog: always guilty, always sorry... am
dialog: I so bad?
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: With Ursula you weren't bad, you
dialog: were stupid... you did the one thing
dialog: you can't do to a strong woman...
dialog: you took away her pride... what else
dialog: can she do but hate you?
text: Hector is silent.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: And then you get on the same ship...
dialog: what a fool...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I had to get home... just like you...
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: And when the ship went down... why
dialog: did you have to get on the same
dialog: raft... it was as if you were trying
dialog: to torment her...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: But... the other raft was sinking...
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO *
dialog: So? *
speaker_heading: HECTOR *
dialog: Francisco... please... *
text: Francisco's face breaks into a smile. They drink the *
text: rest of the bottle in silence, the complexity of their *
dialog: friendship having gone beyond words. *
scene_heading: 118 EXT. MASS - DAY 118
text: On a headland overlooking the bay, Father Diogo's mass is
text: in progress. Every fit member of the camp is there, and
text: a good many of the sick have been carried in litters to
text: take part. The harmonium has been carried up the hill
text: and is in full voice, some youths dissipating their
text: precious energy on its bellows. The younger boys have
text: been organized into a choir.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 100.
scene_heading: 118 CONTINUED: 118
dialog: *
text: The large cross stands behind Father Diogo, held in place
text: by a cairn of piled stones at its base. When we FIND
text: Hector there is something tantalizingly familiar about it
text: all; the cliffs, the ocean, the kneeling Hector, a pile
text: of stones, the offering to a god.
dialog: *
scene_heading: 119 EXT. CLEARING - DAY 119
text: The natives have gathered nearby. They have been moved, *
text: perhaps by the music, or perhaps by the simple, universal *
text: posture of worship itself. They begin to sing, a low,
text: rhythmic, compelling chant. It mingles with the distant
text: voice of Father Diogo, and then with the chanting voices
dialog: of all the Europeans, until it seems that the whole
text: world is praying.
scene_heading: 120 EXT. CAMP - MORNING 120
text: Next morning the camp on the beach is being broken up.
text: The place is like a junkyard. The amount of damage that
dialog: a hundred and fifty people can do to a beach in two days
text: is impressive. Dom Paulo and the officers watch the work.
text: With them are some messengers from the king, and the
dialog: Slave translator.
text: One of the messengers is talking. When he finishes, the
dialog: Slave translates.
speaker_heading: SLAVE
dialog: Yes... they will look after the
dialog: sick... but the King would like
dialog: one thing... the machine that
dialog: makes music...
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: We need food as well... ten
dialog: cows... to take with us... then
dialog: the King can have the music.
scene_heading: 121 EXT. CAMP - ANOTHER ANGLE - MORNING 121 *
text: Hector is sitting beside Nuno on a box, talking earnestly
text: to him. Andre stands beside them.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You must come with us.
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 101.
scene_heading: 121 CONTINUED: 121
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: Your mother might not get well...
dialog: do you understand that?
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: That's why I have to stay.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: And afterwards... what will you
dialog: do then?
speaker_heading: NUNO
dialog: Follow you and the others.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Alone?
text: Nuno remains silent.
speaker_heading: ANDRE
dialog: Let him be.
scene_heading: 122 EXT. CAMP - DAY 122
text: Dom Paulo and Father Diogo are standing beside Dom *
text: Paulo's table, all that remains of his headquarters on *
dialog: the beach.
speaker_heading: FATHER DIOGO
dialog: I'll comfort them as best as I
dialog: can.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: You're staying with them?
text: Father Diogo hastens to correct this misunderstanding.
speaker_heading: FATHER DIOGO
dialog: No, no, I'll comfort them before
dialog: we leave. I think my place is
dialog: with you...
text: Two sailors, like stagehands, enter and remove the table,
text: leaving Dom Paulo and Father Diogo propless on the beach.
scene_heading: 123 EXT. JUNGLE PATH - DAY 123
text: The trek from the beach to the village has started. A
text: long line of people, including some local natives, carry
text: the sick in crudely-made litters. Even this short trip
text: is hard. Somewhere in the line six sailors manhandle the
text: harmonium up the jungle path.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 102.
scene_heading: 123 CONTINUED: 123
text: Just behind them Hector is helping Nuno to carry his
text: Mother in a litter. It is like a civilization on the
dialog: move. In a day or two the wind and the sea will have
dialog: rubbed out all evidence of their stay, and the bay will
dialog: welcome its regular tenants, the turtles.
scene_heading: 124 EXT. NATIVE VILLAGE - DAY 124
text: There is a sense of bustle in the native village as the
text: European sick are settled into their huts and the others
text: prepare to depart. Emotional farewells take place in *
text: dark corners of the small huts. A group of unmoved
text: sailors are playing cards in the dirt. *
text: In amongst the bustle Hector is looking for Francisco.
text: He finds him taking some of his possessions into a hut. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Francisco... I have to see her *
dialog: before we leave.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: I'll ask her.
text: Francisco goes into the hut. Hector waits outside,
text: watching the small human dramas all around him. Soon
text: Francisco emerges from the hut.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: In you go.
text: Hector goes into the hut, stooping low at the small
dialog: entrance.
scene_heading: 125 INT. HUT - DAY 125
text: Ursula is lying in a darkened corner. Hector is shaken
text: by the sight of her, ashen and fevered, but tries not to
text: show it. He kneels beside her.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Ursula... it's Hector.
text: She turns her eyes to him but doesn't speak.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We're leaving soon. I've come to
dialog: say goodbye...
text: Her voice is a whisper.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 103. *
scene_heading: 125 CONTINUED: 125
speaker_heading: URSULA
dialog: Goodbye.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I won't forget you... I won't
dialog: forget India... I can't forget
dialog: how I hurt you...
text: She looks at him but doesn't or cannot speak.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We should have talked... I could
dialog: have explained... many things...
text: She manages a whispered word.
speaker_heading: URSULA
dialog: Lisbon...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes... I'll pray for you in
dialog: Lisbon... at the Cathedral...
text: She lies still. Hector lingers for a moment. Then he
text: speaks again.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm sorry I hurt your pride...
text: Hector has blown it. Ursula pulls herself up on an
text: elbow, finding wells of energy from sheer indignation.
text: Hector is astonished, almost jumping out of his skin.
speaker_heading: URSULA
dialog: What? What did you say? What are
dialog: you talking about?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Nothing, nothing...
text: Ursula speaks one word, and then falls back into a dead
text: faint.
speaker_heading: URSULA
dialog: Idiot!
text: She lies still. Hector leans over her to make sure she
text: is still breathing. He whispers nervously.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Ursula?
dialog: 104.
scene_heading: 126 EXT. HUT - DAY 126
text: Outside the hut, Dom Paulo is talking with Francisco.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: We won't forget you, or what you
dialog: are doing for these poor people...
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: I'm not staying here with the
dialog: intention of dying, Dom Paulo...
dialog: we'll be following you... when we
dialog: are fit and well...
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: Yes, of course...
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: ... and good luck to you... *
text: They make what they both know is their final parting. *
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: God protect you... it breaks my *
dialog: heart to leave you all here, but
dialog: I don't know what else I can do.
text: They shake hands.
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: We're leaving the cross with
dialog: you...
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Oh, thank you...
speaker_heading: DOM PAULO
dialog: It's too heavy to carry... and who
dialog: knows... it might make some
text: impression on the heathens.
text: Hector comes out of the hut, solemn-faced. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Francisco, I must talk to you
dialog: alone...
scene_heading: 127 EXT. HUT - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY 127
text: Hector takes Francisco by the arm and leads him behind
dialog: the hut.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: You've made your peace with her?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 105.
scene_heading: 127 CONTINUED: 127
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes. I think so... *
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Thank, God... Well, goodbye. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Is there anything that I can do
dialog: for you? A letter... a message? *
text: Francisco laughs softly.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: No... if you were carrying *
dialog: something for me I would have to
dialog: worry about you... if you go
dialog: empty-handed I can put you out of
dialog: my mind!
text: Hector smiles uncertainly, unsure if Francisco is making
text: a joke. Then he becomes more serious.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I want to ask you something. *
dialog: There's no easy way to do it...
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Go on, Hector...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Your boots...
text: Francisco looks down at his boots.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: What about them?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Can I have them? You can have
dialog: mine... they'll be fine for
dialog: here... but I have to walk six
dialog: hundred miles...
text: Hector lifts a foot to show Francisco his boot. Francisco
text: is stunned into silence. But then a smile comes to his *
text: face.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Yes, you're right... I daresay *
dialog: my boots would take you six hundred *
dialog: miles... I look after them...
text: Hector becomes almost poetic in his pleading.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 106.
scene_heading: 127 CONTINUED: (2) 127
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'll walk all the way home,
dialog: Francisco... I'll pray for your
dialog: soul in the Cathedral in Lisbon...
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: ... In my boots...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes.
text: Francisco starts to laugh out loud.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: Hector, you have surpassed
dialog: yourself... sit down and take my
dialog: boots!
text: Francisco starts to take off his boots. Hector does the *
text: same. He can't believe his luck. At this moment, he *
text: loves Francisco. He makes nonsensical small talk,
text: hopping around on one foot.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: They were made by Da Fosca,
dialog: weren't they?
text: Francisco is giggling now.
speaker_heading: FRANCISCO
dialog: The best bootmaker in Goa... pray
dialog: for my soul in Lisbon, Hector...
dialog: and pray for your own...
text: Francisco is laughing, but Hector doesn't get the joke.
dialog: *
scene_heading: 128 EXT. FOREST - DAY 128
text: A different forest. A wilderness of giant pines, ranging
text: through the mountains for hundred of miles. It is late *
text: in the year. There is one human sound in the cold still- *
text: ness, a voice singing.
text: BOBBY, the owner of the voice, has a pack on his back. *
text: He is making his way up a steep slope to an area of flat
text: ground. He stops singing, looks around, and calls out *
text: in a powerful voice. *
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: They've gone... long gone!
text: Bobby looks around the abandoned camp, the dead fires, *
dialog: cleared areas for tents.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 107. *
scene_heading: 128 CONTINUED: 128
text: Up the slope and INTO VIEW comes his companion, leading
text: a laden pack horse. It is Hector.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: They've been gone a week, at
dialog: least.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Damn them...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: We're ten days late...
text: They look at each other. They are in trouble, and now
dialog: they know it.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Cheer up. Have a look around.
dialog: I'll start on a fire...
scene_heading: 129 EXT. CAMPSITE - DAY 129
text: Hector has scoured the campsite. He holds up a canteen
dialog: he has found.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's Sandy's... whiskey...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Well done, my lad!
text: Hector walks to the fire, pleased with himself. Bobby
text: unfolds his fist and looks at what he has found, an
text: Indian arrowhead with a few inches of broken shaft. He
text: folds his hand over it again, keeping his secret.
text: Behind them, nailed to a tree, is a plaque their
text: companions have left. It reads, "Pennsylvania Boundary
text: Expedition 1761, Marker 152." Also on the plaque someone
dialog: has written, "We left here, 20th October."
scene_heading: 130 EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 130
text: Hector and Bobby sit by the fire with their supper. They
text: are both anxious, but pretend not to be.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 108. *
scene_heading: 130 CONTINUED: 130
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Even if we lose their track, we'll
dialog: still hit the river... we can't
dialog: miss that.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's too high for Indians?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Much too high. You won't find an
dialog: Indian up here. We just have to
dialog: keep our heads... no panic.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: If you did find an Indian, what
dialog: would he be?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: You wouldn't... but he might be a
dialog: Delaware if you did.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We keep working?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Why not. We can log the peaks on
text: the far side, just a couple of
dialog: sightings a day... keep us busy...
text: Their forced tone of matter-of-factness only serves to
text: heighten the growing feeling of doom.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You think we'll get out?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: If we keep our heads. I wish I
dialog: had some tobacco.
scene_heading: 131 EXT. CAMP - ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT 131
text: Hector is lying awake, watching Bobby's sleeping form on
text: the ground at the other side of the dying fire. Behind
text: Bobby is a wolf, sniffing and edging his way closer to
text: them. Hector isn't anxious. He knows the wolf will soon
text: become aware of them and move off. He is worried about
text: something else. From under the pack that makes his
text: pillow he pulls a piece of broken arrow, a shaft and some
text: feathers, the other end of Bobby's find. He looks at it,
text: then looks back to Bobby and the wolf.
dialog: 109.
scene_heading: 132 EXT. CAMP - MORNING 132
text: In the morning Hector and Bobby are taking readings from
text: the instruments they have hung on a large tree, main-
text: taining the disciplines of their work. It gives some
text: shape and meaning to their predicament.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Barometer... twenty-eight and
dialog: three-eighths... temperature... *
dialog: low... thirty-four... high...
dialog: forty-two and a half... time...
text: Hector writes it in the log book. Bobby goes to the *
text: horse and takes a brass chronometer from a box strapped
text: to the saddle. Hector takes out a smaller chronometer
text: from his own pack. They compare readings. There is a
dialog: difference of some four or five minutes in the time.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: It's getting worse... you're
text: nearly five minutes fast now...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm not fast... you're slowing
dialog: down.
dialog: They obviously have this tiff every morning.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What's the point of having two
dialog: chronometers when you don't take
dialog: the average?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Exactly... you should throw yours
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You're unscientific, Bobby... at
dialog: heart...
text: Hector writes in the book. He speaks pointedly.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Seven twenty-five...
text: Bobby mocks him with a laugh. *
scene_heading: 133 EXT. FOREST - DAY 133
text: Bobby is leading the horse and Hector walks on ahead. *
text: The going is easy through the ferns and grasses. Bobby *
text: for a moment forgets his apprehensions and starts to sing
text: loudly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 110. *
speaker_heading: 133 CONTINUED: 133
speaker_heading: BOBBY
text: I see her in the dewy flowers
dialog: I see her sweet and fair...
text: His voice rings sharply around the forest. Hector far
text: ahead turns around, taken by surprise. Bobby has
text: frightened himself too. He eyes the forest all around
text: as the echo of his voice fades. Chastened, he begins
text: to sing again, quietly this time, under his breath.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: There's not a bonny bird that sings
dialog: But minds me o' my Jean...
scene_heading: 134 EXT. CLEARING - DAY 134
text: Hector and Bobby have stopped at a point of bare rock
text: looking out across the broad valley.
text: They are building a pile of stones, a cairn. They work
text: quietly, methodically. The only sounds are of their
text: breathing and the CLICK-CLACK of the stones. We feel the
text: echoes of our many previous Hectors and their piles of
dialog: stones, built for this or that purpose. Our doomed
text: surveyors are acting out the same ritual, this time in
dialog: the name of science.
text: They finish the cairn and erect their heavy tripod over
text: it, and dangle a plumb line from the tripod. Bobby
text: scratches the center point on the top stone of the cairn.
text: They are establishing a survey point. They talk as they
dialog: work.
text: When they anchor their tripod, the cold hard sound of
text: their CHISELS STRIKING ROCK ECHOES all through the forest.
text: It unnerves them. They stop hammering and listen to the
text: ECHO BOUNCING down the valley.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Sure this is a good idea.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Let's get out of here.
text: They hastily dismantle the equipment and load up the
text: horse, in an atmosphere of controlled panic.
scene_heading: 135 EXT. FOREST - DAY 135
text: They are travelling together now, on either side of the
text: horse's nose, finding comfort in the closeness of each
text: other. They stop for Bobby to consult his compass.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 111. *
speaker_heading: 135 CONTINUED: 135
text: He indicates a slight change of direction, and they move
text: off again. Still they don't talk. We can feel their
text: anxiety breeding in the silence. Why don't they talk?
text: They proceed in this weighty silence, but even the CRIES
text: of the BIRDS now seem to mock them.
text: The route takes them downhill. The slopes are more dense
text: with undergrowth now and the going isn't so easy. Some-
text: times they are reduced to an undignified scramble, hanging
text: onto the bulk of the horse between them. They no longer
text: look much like conquerors of the wilderness.
scene_heading: 136 EXT. FOREST - DAY 136
text: They are on the valley floor now. The trees are more
text: openly spaced and the grass is richer. They are moving
text: quickly but they have a hard time keeping the horse on
text: the trot. It hasn't seen grass this good in weeks.
scene_heading: 137 EXT. FOREST - DAY 137
text: They are moving more slowly, the ground is rockier and
text: the trees are thickening. They take the easy way up the
text: hillside, a natural path made by deer or bear.
text: It is difficult to know who is more shaken by their
text: encounter, the Indian or Hector and Bobby.
text: The INDIAN is sitting behind a tree as they pass, dozing
text: or deep in reverie. They almost pass without noticing
text: him, but Hector gives a turn of his head and there is the
text: Indian four feet from him. At the same instant the Indian
text: comes to his senses and sits bolt upright. The encounter
text: is high comedy but full of terror for all of them.
text: The Indian stands up. Hector absurdly greets him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hi! Hello!
text: The Indian backs off from them, holding his hands up and
text: smiling crazily, as if to say, "Don't mind me, boys, I'm
text: just leaving..." Hector and Bobby are equally silly in
dialog: their response.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hey, come back... we're just
dialog: moving through... don't
dialog: apologize... we all got a fright...
dialog: goodbye...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 112. *
scene_heading: 137 CONTINUED: 137
text: The Indian is in full retreat now, waving his hands about
text: apologetically, but making good distance from them.
text: Suddenly, he is gone. It has happened so quickly that
text: Hector and Bobby scarcely believe it has happened. Then
text: they realize that in their fright they have let go of the
text: horse. It has headed back down to the tastier pastures
text: in the valley. They see it disappearing into the trees
text: below them.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: That was stupid...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Did you see him?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Sure I saw him.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Was he a Delaware?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: How the fuck should I know? He
dialog: was an Indian... and Indians don't
dialog: come in ones...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yeah... I think he was an Indian
dialog: too... What about the horse?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I'm not going back down there.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Don't panic, Bobby...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Why not?
text: He runs off into the forest. Then he turns and shouts to
dialog: Hector.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Come on!
text: Hector follows him, a mad race through the forest.
scene_heading: 138 EXT. FOREST - DAY 138
text: Hector and Bobby are sitting on a rock, gathering their
text: wits. It is odd how they talk so matter-of-factly.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What did you see?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 113. *
scene_heading: 138 CONTINUED: 138
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Same as you.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: An Indian... with long hair...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: That's it... kind of short...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yeah... he was't tall...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: That's the one.
text: Hector scans the hills above them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Let's get a bit further up.
text: They move off. Bobby looks at Hector's backpack.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: What've you got in there?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Some food, the logbooks, my
dialog: letters, a candle...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: A gun?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No.
scene_heading: 139 EXT. CAMP - DAY 139
text: They have stopped to make camp. It is late afternoon,
text: the sky just darkening, sharp shadows on the far peaks, a
text: purple glow in the air.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: We won't have a fire tonight. We
dialog: should make a shelter though, in
dialog: case it snows.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What about bears, without a fire?
text: Bobby laughs quietly.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Don't even think about bears, Hector.
dialog: 114. *
scene_heading: 140 EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 140
text: They are making a round frame of bent branches and cover-
text: ing it with foliage. Half-hidden in the undergrowth, it
text: is big enough for two men to huddle in. Tonight they feel
text: the most basic of urges, to curl up in a ball and hide.
scene_heading: 141 INT. CAMP - NIGHT 141
text: They are safe and snug in their hideaway. Hector has lit
text: his candle. He is reading his letters, holding them close
text: to his eyes in the dimness. He has the air of someone
text: putting his affairs in order. Bobby is thinking aloud.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Maybe he's lost too... on his
dialog: own... must be Delaware... they
dialog: were chased up here years ago...
dialog: everybody thought they'd cleared
dialog: off west... the other side of
dialog: Ohio... they were an angry lot...
dialog: no wonder... they used to farm on
dialog: the coast.
text: He looks up at Hector, and allows himself a small smile.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Go on, read it out...
text: Hector looks up.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What? No... not tonight...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I've had to listen to it every
dialog: night since April... why not now?
text: Hector gives in. He holds a scrap of paper close to the
text: candle and reads.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Dear, Father, I miss you. Three
text: frogs are dead. Everybody misses
dialog: you. Bring me a bear's head and
dialog: claws and a gun. School is good.
text: Miss White has married a fireman.
dialog: Come back soon. Do not worry
dialog: about the frogs, they did not
dialog: have names. Nathaniel.
text: Hector looks up at Bobby.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: It's not so funny now as it was.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 115. *
scene_heading: 141 CONTINUED: 141
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: It wasn't funny then.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: If you knew him... if you could
dialog: picture him saying it... it would
dialog: be funnier.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I had a father like you... nine
dialog: months on a whaler and then three
dialog: weeks at home telling us all how
dialog: much he missed us...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm going home, for the winter...
text: Bobby doesn't pursue his argument. He tenses, then
text: sniffs the air vigorously.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Smell it?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Goddam it... smell it?
text: Hector sniffs some more.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Tobacco?
text: They whisper.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Where the hell is it coming
dialog: from?
text: He puts his head out of the shelter.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I can't tell... a night like this
dialog: it could carry for miles...
text: He huddles back inside the shelter.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I wish I had a smoke.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 116. *
scene_heading: 141 CONTINUED: (2) 141
text: After a tense silence, Hector takes a small package from
text: an inside pocket. He hands it to Bobby.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I was saving it... you have it...
text: It is a wedge of tobacco. Bobby takes it.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: What do you mean, you were saving
dialog: it? You know the rules... no
dialog: hoarding, tobacco or food... you've
dialog: listened to me for a month, day and
dialog: night... wanting a smoke...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well have it now... I don't smoke...
dialog: take it...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: You've kept it from me, and you
dialog: don't even use it...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I was saving it for my birthday...
dialog: I was going to give it to you then...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I have to wait until your birthday
dialog: for a smoke? Who are you... the
dialog: fucking king?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Go on, smoke it... have it now...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I bloody won't... I'm not smoking
dialog: on your command... I bloody won't.
text: There is a brooding silence.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: God, your poor children... what do
dialog: they have to do for a piece of
dialog: candy in your house? It's very
dialog: hard to like you sometimes... d'you
dialog: know that?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I know, Bobby... but that's how I
dialog: feel about you, too... that's why
dialog: we're friends... we try hard...
dialog: come on... smoke your pipe...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 117. *
scene_heading: 141 CONTINUED: (3) 141
text: Hector is neatly turning the tables on Bobby, who now
text: appears churlish, childish.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: No... I'll have it in the morning.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Come on... tell me... who would
dialog: you rather be sitting here with...
dialog: have a think...
text: Bobby does, and then breaks into a smile.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Daniel Boone?
text: Hector smiles, too.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yeah. He would be a help... but
dialog: after Daniel Boone...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I can't think of anyone else... but
dialog: you're impossible to like sometimes.
text: Suddenly Bobby grows shy of their growing intimacy.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: We should sleep. We've got a lot
text: of running to do in the morning.
text: But Hector has other plans. He is in control of their
dialog: friendship now.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No we're not... we're going to
dialog: talk... all night...
text: Bobby yields to this with the softest, most vulnerable
text: smile we have yet seen on his face.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: So... where do you want to start?
text: Bobby is silent, but still smiles his acquiescent smile.
text: Hector reads the silence well.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I know where you want to start...
text: Bobby is still silent.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Alicia...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 118. *
scene_heading: 141 CONTINUED: (4) 141
text: Bobby's smile breaks into a boyish laugh.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Well... what about Alicia?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm sorry...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: No... I'm sorry...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What do you mean, you're sorry...
dialog: I'm the one that has to apologize...
text: Bobby is mischievous now.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Oh no you're not...
text: It will be a worthwhile night for both of them.
scene_heading: 142 EXT. FOREST - DAWN 142
text: It is a glorious dawn. Bobby sits looking out on the
text: valley, smoking his pipe. Behind him Hector is busy
text: writing in his log book.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Isn't it a beautiful day?
text: Hector finishes his writing, tears out the page from his
text: book. He offers it to Bobby.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I've said who we are and where
dialog: we're headed. Want to sign it,
dialog: write anything?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: The peak we logged yesterday...
dialog: I've named it Nathanial Mountain.
dialog: After my boy... is that fine with
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I was going to call it Tobacco
dialog: Mountain... or Mount Alicia... but
dialog: Nathaniel's fine...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 119. *
speaker_heading: 142 CONTINUED: 142
text: Hector smiles. He puts the paper in a small leather
text: pouch, puts the pouch on the ground near the shelter,
text: and starts to build a small pile of protective stones
text: on top of it.
text: Bobby stands, and turns to watch him.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Let's get away from here.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: North?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Yeah. Keep the sun on our backs.
text: Bobby walks off with great clouds of tobacco smoke
text: billowing defiantly around him, as if to challenge
text: their night-time tormentor.
text: Hector takes a last look at their shelter and its little
text: memorial cairn and then runs to catch up with Bobby.
scene_heading: 143 EXT. FOREST - DAY 143
text: Hector and Bobby look vulnerable as they walk through
text: the open forest with their meager packs on their backs.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: We can move quicker without the
dialog: horse... we just have to keep
dialog: moving... we have to get away from
dialog: here.
text: Behind them they don't see the figure moving from the
text: cover of one tree to another, and then another figure
text: following the first. They move like ghosts.
scene_heading: 144 EXT. FOREST - DAY 144
text: Bobby is a few steps ahead of Hector. He dips down
text: over a rise, and instantly returns. He throws himself
text: and Hector to the ground. Hector tries to struggle free.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
text: Quiet. They're on the other side...
text: Hector ducks lower, hugging the ground. Bobby is
text: already sliding up the slope to look over the rise.
text: Hector follows him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 120.
scene_heading: 144 CONTINUED: 144
text: On the other side, they see the women and children of
text: a small group of Indians at the edge of a stream. The
text: women are washing clothes, the children are splashing and
text: playing. We are close enough to hear their laughter.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
text: We're right in the middle of them...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Does it have to be bad? They might
dialog: be friendly...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: They were chased here... They should
dialog: be on the coast growing corn...
text: Bobby turns to Hector to make his point. That is when he
text: sees the first of the figures, just the ghost of a shadow
text: moving from tree to rock. His eyes flick across the
text: forest behind them. He sees another figure caught in
text: the act of seeking cover, looking absurdly embarrassed
text: for the fleeting moment that we see it. Then Bobby
text: sees another. Are they teasing them? It looks so much
dialog: like a game children would play.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Oh-oh... *
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What's wrong? *
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: They're behind us. They must
dialog: think we're stalking the women...
text: Hector looks and sees nothing. Fifty Indians hold their
text: breath. The forest seems empty. But Hector looks at
text: Bobby. He is grey-faced, a man who is looking at death.
text: Hector knows they are doomed.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Do you want to run?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'll do what you do.
dialog: *
text: They leap to their feet and run. There is only one
text: way to go, over the rise, through the women and children
text: and across the stream. To the watching Indians it looks
text: like a direct attack on their families. From behind
text: trees and rocks they emerge and begin the chase. A
dialog: tragedy of misunderstanding.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 121.
scene_heading: 144 CONTINUED: (2) 144
text: Hector and Bobby scatter the women and children and
text: splash across the stream, burning all their energy in *
text: this mad life-or-death race. Although their families
text: are safe, the Indians keep up the chase, the moment of
text: confusion compounded in action. They lope easily after
text: them, waiting for the white men to tire. There are no *
text: whoops or shouts. They follow Hector and Bobby into the
text: trees, spreading out on either side, shaping the human
text: net that will soon engulf them.
text: It is a menacing spectacle. Death is near. Hector
text: and Bobby stay close together as they run.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
text: When they catch up... fight...
dialog: it'll be quicker... fight like
dialog: hell...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: They're not going to catch us.
dialog: We're going home.
text: Hector stretches out an arm to Bobby.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hold my hand, Bobby...
text: They hold hands and run.
scene_heading: 145 EXT. BUILDING - DAY 145
text: A war party of media people surround Hector as he exits
text: a Yellow Cab. He forces his way through the yelling
text: crowd of REPORTERS and camera crews. Hector is trying
text: to make his way into a crumbling apartment building in
text: Queens. Policemen help Hector through the barrage of *
dialog: shouted questions.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1
dialog: Do you know the lady, Mr. Troup?
speaker_heading: REPORTER #2
dialog: Think you'll go to jail again?
speaker_heading: CAMERAMAN
dialog: Look here for a second, will you,
dialog: Mr. Troup?
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1
dialog: Will you talk to us when you come
dialog: out?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 122.
scene_heading: 145 CONTINUED: 145
text: Hector enters the building. The media mob immediately
text: switch off their energy. They light cigarettes, fiddle *
text: with cameras, stare into space, as if someone has
dialog: shouted "Cut."
scene_heading: 146 INT. BUILDING - DAY 146
text: Hector climbs to the fourth floor. A POLICEMAN goes with
dialog: him.
text: Two paramedics come up the stairs behind them, carrying a
text: stretcher. The Policeman stops.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: You guys are downstairs... third
dialog: floor... thirty-eight...
text: The paramedics turn around and head back down the stairs.
text: Hector looks at the Policeman curiously.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: You're forty-eight.
text: They continue climbing.
scene_heading: 147 INT. APARTMENT - DAY 147
text: Hector and the Policeman squeeze past a cluster of people
text: at the door and enter the apartment.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: This is Troup!
text: A DETECTIVE is with another man who looks like a city
dialog: official.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: Come here, Troup. I'm Cobb.
text: Hector joins them.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: You bring everything?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: Building warrant, license, fire
dialog: certificate, sanitation
dialog: certificate... I want them all...
dialog: This is Mr. Santiago, from the
dialog: city... insurance...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 123.
speaker_heading: 147 CONTINUED: 147
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: This isn't really my building...
dialog: it's my partner's... I just took
dialog: the call and came right over...
dialog: I have to leave town in an hour *
dialog: or so anyway...
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: Slow down, Troup... so it's 3:15
dialog: on a Friday... you're staying here
dialog: 'til Mr. Santiago gets the
dialog: paperwork... get your partner over
dialog: here, with everything... this is
dialog: serious...
text: Hector looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: 3:35...
speaker_heading: MR. SANTIAGO
dialog: I might have to close the place
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Where is she?
text: The Detective and Hector walk down the hall. They stop
text: at the door of the bathroom. Hector looks inside. There
text: is a large ragged hole in the floor. At the far side of
text: it the toilet unit dangles at a dangerous angle into the
text: hole, held only by its plumbing. Firemen are working to
text: secure it and what is left of the floor with metal props
text: and hydraulic jacks. Lying on the floor below,
text: surrounded by rubble, and being attended by the
text: paramedics, is an old lady, MRS. PHILIPPOPOLIS. She
text: tries to sit up when she sees Hector peering at her over
text: the rim of the hole. She looks angry.
scene_heading: MR. PHILIPPOPOLIS
dialog: I phoned you Monday... I told you
dialog: the floor was making noises...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Not me, Mrs. Philippopolis... my
dialog: ex-partner... I think you spoke *
dialog: to him... How are you feeling?
dialog: Hector says this clearly, for the benefit of the
text: Detective and Mr. Santiago. The Detecitve is unimpressed.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: Come back from there, Troup, the
text: floor's still moving...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 124. *
scene_heading: 147 CONTINUED: (2) 147
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'll make a couple of calls... I'll
dialog: straighten it out... is she bad?
dialog: Why don't they move her?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
text: They waited for a portable X-Ray
dialog: machine... they can move her now.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: She seems in good spirits...
text: As if in response, Mrs. Philippopolis shouts up to
text: Hector as she sees him leaving the bathroom above her.
scene_heading: MRS. PHILIPPOPOLIS
dialog: Wait 'til my son sees his mother
dialog: lying here like this... he's gonna
dialog: sue you... you're a lousy landlord...
dialog: you should be ashamed... to let old
dialog: people live like this... I phoned
dialog: you Monday... I have a witness!
dialog: I was dancing with a prince on my
dialog: eighteenth birthday, and now look at
dialog: me... you have me falling down a
dialog: toilet!
scene_heading: 148 INT. BUILDING - DAY 148
text: Hector retreats into the hallway. Takes out his mobile
text: phone and dials, while watching the ominous Mr. Santiago
text: making copius notes in his book. Hector gets connected.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Boris... why did you do this to
dialog: me? Get down here now... they
dialog: want all kinds of certificates...
dialog: They won't let me leave the
dialog: building... I have my kids tonight,
dialog: I haven't seen them in four years...
dialog: I did tell you, I've been talking
dialog: about it all week... how come they
dialog: phoned me, this isn't my building?
dialog: What? Don't tell me anymore... I
dialog: want you here, now... and on your
dialog: knee... I'll phone the lawyer...
dialog: but you move. My weekend's ruined
dialog: before it's started.
text: Hector quickly dials another number.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 125.
speaker_heading: 148 CONTINUED: 148
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Anna... thank God... you have to
dialog: help me... I'm still in Queens... *
dialog: I've got cops here and everything *
dialog: ... I need your car... I don't have
dialog: time to pick up the rental now...
dialog: they won't let me leave the
dialog: building... you come down here...
dialog: and put my bag in the car... no.. *
dialog: I have to pick the kids up by six,
dialog: otherwise I fuck up her weekend
dialog: too... she'll kill me... this is
dialog: an emergency... what can I say?
dialog: Please... right... okay...
text: He finishes the call just as Santiago approaches, waving
text: his notebook now full of incriminating notes.
speaker_heading: SANTIAGO
text: It looks like water rotted the
dialog: floor... You have any plumbing
dialog: maintenance records?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: At the office... I might have some
dialog: bills... it's not my building. *
text: Santiago is talking almost to himself now, absorbed in the
text: mundane mechanics of Hector's building.
speaker_heading: SANTIAGO
dialog: It's a weird one... I don't know
dialog: how water could sit in there for
dialog: so long without somebody noticing
dialog: ... you didn't use water-resistent
dialog: paint on the ceilings did you?
text: Hector shakes his head wearily.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't really know...
speaker_heading: SANTIAGO
dialog: You're going to have to check out *
dialog: the whole building... you know
dialog: that, don't you?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Can I do it Monday?
speaker_heading: SANTIAGO
dialog: Good joke... it'll take you a
dialog: month.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 126.
scene_heading: 148 CONTINUED: (2) 148
text: Hector is already dialing another number as Santiago
text: wanders off in search of further fascinating discoveries.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Can I speak with Leonard, please...
dialog: Mr. Deutsch? My name is Hector
dialog: Troup, Borlonski and Troup, Real
dialog: Estate...
text: There is a moment's pause.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Leonard... it's Hector... Borlonski
dialog: and Troup... yes... listen, we've
dialog: had a domestic accident at our
dialog: Eighth Street building... a floor *
dialog: ... and an old lady... she did
dialog: mention the word sue, but it might
dialog: have been hysterics... what I need
dialog: to know is what certificates you
dialog: have on file for the building... I *
dialog: know it's Friday... just do one *
dialog: thing... let me know if the
dialog: insurance is current... I need to
dialog: know that... I'm on my mobile...
dialog: anything you have... before five
dialog: ... thank you...
text: During the call Hector has walked down the hall and back
text: to the hole in the floor. He sees Mrs. Philippopolis,
text: now strapped in a stretcher, being carried out of the
text: room below. At the sight of him, she tries to sit up,
text: straining on her straps.
scene_heading: MRS. PHILIPPOPOLIS
dialog: My son's downstairs... when he
dialog: sees me like this he'll kill you...
dialog: go on... jump through the hole...
dialog: see what it feels like! Break both
dialog: legs!
text: Hector is almost tempted to do what she says.
scene_heading: 149 INT. BUILDING - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY 149
text: Hector is following the paramedics as they negotiate
text: Mrs. Philippopolis down the three flights of stairs.
text: He is on the phone again. This time to his former wife.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: 149 CONTINUED: 149
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'll be on the way in thirty
dialog: minutes at the outside... I can't
dialog: say... Queens to New Jersey, on
dialog: a Friday... what do you think?
dialog: I'll be there... it's important to
dialog: me too, I've been trying to put
dialog: this weekend together for years...
dialog: I'll be there... I won't take
dialog: it out on the kids, I can walk
dialog: away from problems... as soon as
dialog: I get the car... I'll be there...
text: All the while Mrs. Philippopolis issues a non-stop *
text: torrent of Greek expletives -- calmly and in a considered *
text: tone, but obviously obscene. Hector is shocked. *
scene_heading: 150 EXT. BUILDING - DAY 150
text: On a street Hector stands with a Policeman watching *
text: Mrs. Philippopolis being loaded into the ambulance. Her
text: SON is with her. When she is safely inside he walks
text: towards Hector. Fortunately he is of modest build, and
text: a head shorter than Hector, and he seems to be saving
dialog: his wrath for the Courthouse.
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: Mr. Troup, I'm George
dialog: Philippopolis.
text: They shake hands.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm sorry about your mother...
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: Well... it's happened... you want
dialog: to travel with us, or do you have
dialog: a car?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: To the hospital...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well, I wasn't planning to...
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: You're not making a visit to the
dialog: hospital?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 128.
scene_heading: 150 CONTINUED: 150
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I've talked to your mother, given
dialog: her my best wishes... she wants
dialog: her family with her now... Any
dialog: other Friday but this one.
text: The Son addresses the Policeman.
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: He's not coming to the hospital...
text: The Policeman looks at Hector.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: That could look bad...
text: The cop is enjoying his role as straight man to these
text: two. Hector takes out his diary.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Look, George... here's what I can
dialog: do... I'll visit her on Tuesday,
dialog: I'll organize some flowers...
dialog: lots... *
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: Screw the flowers... who's gonna
dialog: check her into the hospital...
dialog: who's gonna pay? It's your
dialog: building that fell down...
dialog: *
text: He nods his head to the Policeman.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: They won't let me leave here...
text: The Policeman this time backs him up.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: That's true.
text: The Son backs off to the waiting ambulance reluctantly.
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: Wait 'til they hear this in court *
dialog: ... he wouldn't even make a trip *
dialog: to the hospital... Can't you even *
dialog: give me a credit card number? *
scene_heading: 151 EXT. BUILDING - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY 151
text: The ambulance drives off just as BORIS arrives. Hector
text: runs to the car.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 129. *
speaker_heading: 151 CONTINUED: 151
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's never been this bad, Boris.
text: Deutsch is checking the
dialog: insurance... did you bring the
dialog: rest?
speaker_heading: BORIS
dialog: Yeah... we're covered for most
dialog: things... the license is current,
dialog: the inspection certificate is
dialog: okay...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What's with the we... it's your
dialog: problem.
speaker_heading: BORIS
dialog: How is she?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: She's a witch... her bones must be
dialog: made of steel... she didn't break
dialog: a thing... it might help if you
dialog: make a visit to the hospital...
dialog: why did you do this to me?
speaker_heading: BORIS
dialog: I'm sorry, Hector... I just put
dialog: your name on the lousy forms... I
dialog: didn't plan this... I just
dialog: borrowed your name on the titles.
text: Hector doesn't let up on his anger.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I told you to stop doing that...
dialog: why does this keep happening to
dialog: me... my name is mine... use your
dialog: own name, Boris Borlonski... will
dialog: you remember that?
dialog: Boris Borlonski!
text: Boris is conciliatory.
speaker_heading: BORIS
dialog: Hector... forgive me... I'll take
dialog: care of it... don't let it spoil
dialog: your weekend... four years, huh?
dialog: You make the most of it... and
dialog: don't worry, you'll walk away
dialog: from this... I'm sorry...
text: Hector is calm now. We can sense real depth in their
text: relationship, despite Boris's pranks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 130. *
scene_heading: 151 CONTINUED: (2) 151
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yeah, I'm sorry too... you have
dialog: to get out of this business... I
dialog: thought I had...
speaker_heading: BORIS
dialog: Go on... have a great weekend...
dialog: I'll talk to you on Monday... we'll
dialog: straighten everything out...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: This is the worst it's been.
speaker_heading: BORIS
dialog: Everything can be fixed... always.
text: Then Hector's girl friend ANNA arrives in her car. It is
text: a bright pink station wagon, highly decorated with flower
text: motifs and slogans like "ANNA'S ARRANGEMENTS," and "FRESH
text: OR DRY, WE'LL PLEASE THE EYE." Anna is a florist.
text: Hector brightens when he sees her. Everything is falling
text: into place. All he has to do now is cross two rivers
text: and Manhatan Island in under an hour, in Anna's pink car.
text: He runs to meet her.
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Get in... you can dropp me at the
dialog: shop.
text: Hector gets into the car, smiling broadly.
scene_heading: 152 INT. CAR - DAY 152
text: Anna drives skilfully through the busy Friday streets.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You bring my bag?
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Yeah. Your camera's in there too.
dialog: Take some photographs of the
dialog: kids...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Sure. Thanks.
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Nervous?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 131. *
speaker_heading: 152 CONTINUED: 152
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Not much... just like I'm being
dialog: executed...
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Well you deserve to suffer.
dialog: Our Hectors have been hearing this for centuries, but at
text: least Anna smiles when she says it.
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Don't worry... this is the
dialog: beginning of something... not the
dialog: end... you can start being a
dialog: father again.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm glad you talked me into it.
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: I didn't do much... you were
dialog: ready...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You're right... you're absolutely
dialog: right... I was ready... I am
dialog: ready, for everything... I'm
dialog: fixing all that shit with Boris...
dialog: I told him... it can't go on...
dialog: I want my freedom.
text: Anna is looking at him amusedly, nodding her head with
text: every earnest pronouncement that he makes.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: ... and the kids... that'll work
dialog: out... we can have them over
dialog: sometimes... Yeah?
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Sure... that was the plan... when
dialog: we have the space...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Right, when we have the space...
dialog: when we get the bigger apartment...
dialog: together...
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: There you go... you said it...
dialog: the bigger apartment together...
text: Hector is pleased with himself.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 132.
speaker_heading: 152 CONTINUED: (2) 152
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yeah... I said it, didn't I?
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: You're a man of decision,
dialog: Hector...
text: Hector is high on his optimism now, and cheeky with it.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes I am... Together... I said it
dialog: ... and get out of my car at the
dialog: corner here... I don't have the
dialog: time to go 'round the block.
text: Anna pulls into the curb. Hector leans over to embrace
text: her before she has stopped the car.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Thanks... for the car...
dialog: everything...
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Do the best you can with them,
dialog: Hector... and one more thing...
dialog: deliver these...
text: She indicates a massive bouquet of flowers wrapped in
text: cellophane, taking up the whole of the luggage space in
dialog: the car.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What? Anna, I can't...
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Here's the address... just two
text: blocks before the bridge... a
text: five minute detour. It's a
dialog: golden wedding... you have to...
text: She looks him straight in the eye.
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: We have to help each other...
text: Hector accepts this.
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Oh, you'll need gas too... Go to
dialog: it, Hector...
text: She kisses him quickly, but lovingly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 133. *
scene_heading: 152 CONTINUED: (3) 152
speaker_heading: ANNA
dialog: Phone if there's any disasters...
dialog: don't suffer alone...
text: Hector watches Anna stride, in her business-like way,
text: around the corner OUT OF SIGHT. He is almost home.
scene_heading: 153 INT./EXT. CAR - DAY 153
text: A trip from Queens to New Jersey at five o'clock on
text: a Friday afternoon is going to look like a dream sequence
dialog: whatever you do with it, and that's fine.
dialog: Hector's trip to his children has more meaning for us
dialog: than a simple journey from A to B. We will be aware of
dialog: our other Hectors, and the journeys home that they did
dialog: or didn't manage to make. This car trip will pull the
text: threads together.
text: And after so many images of the natural world, a world
text: little altered by man, the PANORAMIC SHOTS of New York in
dialog: all its mad glory will place our Hector in a new dimen-
text: sion. If there is a breathtaking moment in this film,
dialog: when everything comes together, when all the pieces fit,
dialog: then it will be somewhere around here that it happens.
dialog: Six thousand years ago we left Hector on a beach, aching
dialog: for his family. If the traffic allows, tonight in New
text: Jersey Hector will complete his journey.
text: We will GO WITH Hector OVER the bridge, ACROSS the
text: avenues of Manhattan and THROUGH the tunnel. His PHONE
scene_heading: RINGS ONCE.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hello... Leonard, hello... yes...
dialog: we're insured... thank God... yes
dialog: now I know God's a lawyer...
dialog: thanks...
text: On the outskirts of Jersey City he finds the suburban
text: street he is looking for. If the last crosslight holds
text: on green then he might even make it on time.
text: Hector stops the car outside Janet's house and lets out
text: a sigh of relief.
scene_heading: 154 EXT. HOUSE - EVENING 154
text: Hector's former wife, JANET, and her new husband, DONALD,
text: come out of the house as Hector walks up to the door.
text: Donald is carrying luggage and heads straight for their
text: car in the driveway.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 134.
speaker_heading: 154 CONTINUED: 154
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Hi, Hector.
text: He starts loading up the car. Janet talks to Hector.
speaker_heading: JANET
dialog: You made it. The kids are just
dialog: coming. They're not over the
dialog: moon about going to the beach
dialog: house. I ought to warn you.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Why didn't you say? I could have
dialog: fixed up something else. I
dialog: thought it would be a good place
dialog: to get to know them again...
speaker_heading: JANET
dialog: Well, I figured you should be *
dialog: allowed to make your own mistakes.
dialog: It's only for a couple of nights,
dialog: they can take it... and you'll
dialog: learn... Check into a hotel if
dialog: it gets too much... they like
dialog: hotels.
text: She shouts into the house.
speaker_heading: JANET
dialog: Come on, you two... your father's
dialog: ready to go...
text: She hands Hector a piece of paper.
speaker_heading: JANET
dialog: This is where we'll be, if
dialog: anything crops up... thanks for
dialog: the break...
text: Hector gets a little scared about what he has taken on.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Maybe this is a bit sudden for
dialog: them... Maybe I should have come
dialog: over a couple of nights and got
dialog: to know them...
text: Janet doesn't let him off the hook.
speaker_heading: JANET
dialog: By Monday, you'll know them...
text: Then the children come out of the house, BETSY, who is
text: about thirteen, and TOM, who is eleven.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 135. *
scene_heading: 154 CONTINUED: (2) 154
speaker_heading: JANET
text: Here he is, the invisible dad.
text: She turns to Hector.
speaker_heading: JANET
dialog: That's what they call you.
text: Hector is daunted by how grown up they are, not any
text: more the little kids in the photograph in his wallet.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hi.
text: They hardly lift their heads to him.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Hi.
text: Janet takes control of the farewells.
speaker_heading: JANET
dialog: You three have a good weekend.
dialog: If it's too miserable at the
dialog: house your father said he'll
dialog: take you to a hotel.
text: Hector nods his head obediently. He always did with
text: Janet. The children let their mother pat them and follow
text: Hector to his car, eyes to the ground.
speaker_heading: JANET
dialog: Good luck, Hector.
text: Donald shouts from behind the wheel of his car, where he
text: has been hiding.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: See you Monday, Hector.
text: The kids load themselves into the back of Hector's car.
text: Betsy notices the huge arrangement of flowers, wrapped
text: in cellophane and red ribbon. It seems to have grown
text: even larger than before.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Are those for mom?
text: Hector looks at the flowers. His face contorts in guilt
dialog: and anxiety.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 136. *
scene_heading: 154 CONTINUED: (3) 154
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Oh no... Jesus save me... what
dialog: have I done...
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: What's wrong?
text: He picks up his mobile phone and is about to dial Anna's
text: number, then he stops.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No... I can't face it, not just
dialog: now...
text: He looks at the kids.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Let's go.
scene_heading: 155 INT./EXT. CAR - DUSK 155
text: They are driving on the freeway. It is dusk. Hector is
text: on the telephone again. He can't let go of business.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Excuse me, kids... I have to
dialog: consult the oracle...
text: He gets connected.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hello... God? No, Leonard, it's
dialog: Hector... just a joke... sorry to
dialog: phone you at home, did Boris call
dialog: you? The insurance is fine? Good
dialog: ... but she could claim negligence
dialog: ... oh, she's got a lawyer
dialog: already? That's a bad omen...
text: Betsy and Tom are listening in the back seat, eager for
text: clues about this virtual stranger in front of them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Is there anything we can do right
dialog: now... make her an offer... Sure,
dialog: with the insurance company... sure...
dialog: you're right... me, too... I have
dialog: the kids in the car with me right
dialog: now... sorry to bother you...
dialog: 'bye...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 137.
speaker_heading: 155 CONTINUED: 155
text: Hector throws the phone onto the passenger seat, lets out
text: a sigh, and catches sight of the kids in the mirror.
text: Their perplexed expressions make them look younger than
text: they are, and vulnerable. Hector's heart aches for them.
text: He smiles and puts on an act of brightness.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: That's it! The last call... the
dialog: weekend starts right now... we
dialog: have things to do... look out for
dialog: a Safeway... we need some
dialog: supplies... and gas... oh my God,
dialog: gas... soon...
text: They return his look with blank expressions. He picks up
text: the phone and offers it to them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Want to make any calls? Betsy?
text: She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Tom?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: No... and it's Thomas...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: But we called you Tom... that's
dialog: what it says on your birth
dialog: certificate...
speaker_heading: THOMAS (TOM)
dialog: I changed it.
text: Hector wisely lets it go.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Right... it's your name... you *
dialog: can do that... Safeway... keep your *
dialog: eyes skinned... and I could murder *
dialog: a Chicken McNugget. *
scene_heading: 156 INT. SAFEWAY - NIGHT 156
text: Hector is pushing a cart around a large Safeway. The
text: place is almost deserted. Betsy and Thomas are tagging
dialog: along.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 138.
speaker_heading: 156 CONTINUED: 156
text: For every four items Hector puts in his cart Betsy
text: removes three and returns them to the shelf. Hector
text: notices and puts up with it for a while. But when Betsy
text: returns the rolls of kitchen towel he has selected he
text: makes a stand. He turns to face her.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What's wrong with that? It's a
dialog: kitchen roll... why can't I pick
dialog: a kitchen roll?
text: Betsy is defiant.
speaker_heading: BETSY
text: It's bleached... and it isn't
dialog: recycled... you don't care...
dialog: you just buy junk...
text: She picks up a more friendly brand of kitchen towel from
text: the shelf and throws it into the cart. Hector has the
dialog: sense to back down.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Good point, Betsy...
text: Betsy keeps on the attack.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Everything you buy is junk... I
dialog: don't eat steak... and what's
dialog: this...
text: She prods a packet of frozen hamburgers.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Ugh! Why don't you ask us what
dialog: we like... it'll save you money...
dialog: you buy junk, we won't eat it...
text: A trace of girlish common sense has crept into her voice.
text: Hector warms to her.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You're right.
text: Hector pushes the cart to her.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well, get to it... I'll just tag
dialog: along...
text: Betsy moves off with the cart.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I do it every week anyway.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 139.
scene_heading: 156 CONTINUED: (2) 156
text: Thomas backs her up.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: She does. She tells us what to
dialog: eat. We let her.
text: Hector follows them up the aisle.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Can I just keep a couple of those
dialog: steaks? We can't live on chicken. *
scene_heading: 157 EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT 157
text: Hector is filling up the car in a gas station close to
text: the Safeway. An attractive woman is filling her car in
text: the next line. Her eyes and Hector's meet. For some
text: reason they exchange the smallest smile. For a few
text: brief moments they are talking without words as their
text: tanks fill. The ten billionth romance in the history of
text: the planet sparks into life and fizzles out again in the
text: twinkling of an eye. By the time their credit cards are
text: back in their pockets their love is a memory. From the
text: back of the car the kids have watched it all.
text: Betsy gives Hector a withering look of disapproval as he
text: climbs back into the car.
scene_heading: 158 INT./EXT. CAR - NIGHT 158
text: Back on the road, it is later. The kids have fallen
text: asleep. Hector relaxes. He watches them in their sleep,
text: searching for some traces of the little children that
dialog: have haunted his thoughts for so many years, the tots
text: he abandoned.
scene_heading: 159 EXT. HOLIDAY HOUSE - NIGHT 159
text: The car pulls up at the holiday house. Hector gets out.
text: It is dark, but we can hear the sound of the SEA and
text: there is sand underfoot. Hector walks to the house and
text: unlocks the door. He puts on a couple of exterior lights.
text: He carries Thomas, still sleeping, from the car and into
text: the house. Betsy follows him, still half-asleep, groaning
text: fussily. She talks through her yawns.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Are you going to bring the flowers
dialog: in?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Don't mention the flowers.
dialog: 140. *
scene_heading: 160 INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 160
text: Later, Hector can't sleep. It has been too eventful a
text: day. He sits bleary-eyed watching a late-night TV SHOW.
text: A man sits cross-legged on a studio floor and is talking
text: to a phone-in viewer. The TV man has five small stones
text: which he regularly scatters on the floor.
speaker_heading: TV MAN (V.O.)
dialog: This is good, Tony, the stones
dialog: are talking to me already... now
dialog: here's something... travel...
dialog: movement... Tony, are you planning
dialog: a move... travel... anything?
speaker_heading: TONY (V.O.)
dialog: Yes I am... I've been thinking
dialog: about a move to California...
speaker_heading: TV MAN (V.O.)
dialog: The big one, eh, Tony? These
dialog: stones are really talking here...
dialog: what are you planning for yourself
dialog: in California?
speaker_heading: TONY (V.O.)
dialog: I'm hoping for an acting career,
dialog: Mel...
speaker_heading: TV MAN (V.O.)
dialog: Tony, these stones really like
dialog: what you're planning... there is
dialog: no doubt in my mind about that...
dialog: now listen... you have to be
dialog: specific... these stones really
dialog: want to tell you something, be it
dialog: love, money or the purpose of your
dialog: life... but I want a specific
dialog: question from you... think about
dialog: it... what do you want to know...
dialog: love... or your income level next
dialog: year? Be as specific as you
dialog: can, Tony...
dialog: Perhaps this might have enthralled one of our earlier
dialog: Hectors, but our modern one is simply restless. He
text: stands up and leaves the room.
scene_heading: 161 INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 161
text: Next door, he watches the kids sleeping in their little
text: holiday beds. Hector watches them. We've seen our
dialog: Hectors do this before, and we feel the echo. But as
text: he turns to leave the room Hector gets a fright.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 141. *
speaker_heading: 161 CONTINUED: 161
text: Betsy starts talking loudly. At first Hector thinks she
text: is awake, giving him into trouble, but she is fast asleep.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Get me the books... all the books...
dialog: all of the books... no, no, no...
dialog: not the pancakes... not the
dialog: pancakes... no...
text: She changes in an instant from a bossy adolescent to a
text: tearful, crumpled little girl. She sobs pitifully.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: ... not the pancakes...
text: Hector is a confusion of feelings: frightened,
text: fascinated, impotent. How can he help her? How could he
dialog: possibly unravel the secret of the pancakes, what comfort
dialog: could he offer his stranger daughter if he did? It is
text: a spooky, mystical moment for Hector, more mystical than
text: the mumbo-jumbo still issuing from the TV next door.
speaker_heading: TV WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: ... find your true cosmic partner
dialog: first time around... every weekday
dialog: morning at three here on the Psychic
text: Network... Lucinda's Horoscope Dating
dialog: Show... remember there is an answer,
dialog: and there is a special partner out
dialog: there for you...
text: Hector moves quietly out of the room, Betsy's sobs having
text: subsided. Just as he is closing the door he gets
text: another surprise, this time from the sleeping Thomas.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: ... don't let the oil run out...
dialog: yes you did... watch the oil...
dialog: why... why?
text: Hector closes the bedroom door. He is one spooked, moved
dialog: human being.
scene_heading: 162 INT. HOUSE - MORNING 162
text: In the morning, they are making breakfast in the kitchen.
text: The kids are having juice and cereal. Hector is
text: scrambling some eggs.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How about some eggs?
text: They shake their heads.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 142. *
speaker_heading: 162 CONTINUED: 162
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You don't eat eggs?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: How many have you got in there?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Three. Is that all right?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: For a week, maybe.
text: Hector does a little probing.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How about pancakes, Betsy... d'you
dialog: like pancakes?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Not much... why?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I just wondered. Pancakes don't
dialog: mean much to you?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: They don't mean a thing. Why?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Nothing.
text: The mystery of Betsy's pancake dream is evidently lost in
text: infinity. Hector changes the subject.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I thought we could walk into town
dialog: this morning. I saw the Funfair
dialog: when we came through last night.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: We don't go to Funfairs.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Let's take the walk anyway.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: I brought some books. I want to
dialog: stay home and read.
text: Hector is determined to make it work.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No. We're taking a walk.
dialog: 143.
scene_heading: 163 INT. HALLWAY - DAY 163
text: They are preparing to leave the house. Thomas is still
text: reluctant to go.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: It's going to rain... we should
dialog: stay.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Here's an umbrella... and there
dialog: must be some old coats in here...
dialog: and shoes... I only have these
dialog: I'm wearing...
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Donald has some shoes...
text: Thomas is already in the cupboard under the stairs. He
text: emerges with a pair of sturdy walking shoes.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I don't know if I want to wear
text: Donald's shoes.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Why not?
text: Hector declines to explain the complex reasons that he
dialog: might have for not wanting to wear the shoes of his
text: children's replacement father. He sits down on the *
text: stairs to put them on. Then something on the wall
text: catches his eye.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Wow. Look at this.
text: The kids' heights have been marked on the wall on some
text: long-ago holiday. The dates are beside them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Six years ago. Look at that...
dialog: What's this?
text: He points to a mark and a date lower down on the wall.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: That was the flood. The sea came
dialog: right up. Donald says it's the
dialog: icecap melting. It's going to get
dialog: worse. That's why Mom's selling
dialog: the place.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 144.
speaker_heading: 163 CONTINUED: 163
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It comes up every year?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: The last two.
scene_heading: 164 EXT. BEACH - DAY 164
text: They are on the beach, walking in the direction of town.
text: Hector strides ahead in a show of enthusiasm, although
text: awkward in Donald's big shoes. The kids trail behind.
text: He calls back to them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Where are the birds? Is it the
dialog: wrong time of year?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: They don't come over so much.
dialog: The shellfish have gone... that's
dialog: what...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: That's what Donald says?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Yes... and it happens to be true.
text: Hector looks at the sky. He speaks quietly to himself.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Please don't rain... please...
scene_heading: 165 EXT. FUNFAIR - DAY 165
text: The light DRIZZLE now falling is keeping away what few *
text: fun-seekers there are left in town. The Funfair is not
text: much fun. It is the end of the season. Hector and the *
text: kids are a sorry sight parading the empty alleys. The
text: kids seem to glory in the misery of it all, getting back
text: at Hector for four years of neglect. Heavy-hearted,
text: Hector still tries to make a go of it.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Let's have a ride...
text: He has stopped at some dated space rockets.
speaker_heading: BETSY
text: The seats are wet.
text: Hector triumphs. He pulls a wad of kitchen roll from
text: his pocket and starts to wipe the seats.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 145.
speaker_heading: 165 CONTINUED: 165
speaker_heading: HECTOR
text: Kitchen roll, unbleached,
dialog: re-cycled, biodegradable... dry
dialog: seats...
text: Betsy has the grace to smile as the three of them climb
text: aboard the rockets.
text: As the attendant releases the brakes and cranks them up
text: into the drizzle, 'round and 'round, Hector knows that he
dialog: has to do something to break the awful distance between
text: him and his kids. He looks at them. They sit grimly in
text: their rockets, one in front of him and one behind. Their
text: faces are set in expressions of what? Boredom?
text: Resignation? Patience? Expectancy? Then he realizes
text: what is going on. They are waiting for him to open up to
text: them, talk to them seriously, explain himself. He looks
text: at Betsy's face and sees in it the years of his absence,
text: her stoicism, her patience, her courage. It moves him.
text: He leans over to her.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: This is ridiculous. Let's go
text: somewhere and talk.
text: Betsy smiles her small patient smile.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: All right, if you want to...
text: Hector looks to Thomas. Thomas vigorously nods his
text: agreement. Hector is happier. He looks down on the
text: decrepit fairground.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How do we land these things?
scene_heading: 166 INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY 166
text: The only place the small town has to offer is a deserted
text: coffee shop on the shorefront. Hector, Betsy and Thomas
text: sit at a corner table, beyond them through the window is
text: the beach and the ocean.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Sure you won't have a pancake, *
dialog: Betsy? *
text: Betsy gets impatient. *
speaker_heading: BETSY *
dialog: No! *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 146.
speaker_heading: 166 CONTINUED: 166
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Okay, first question? *
text: The kids are ready for this. There is no coyness now.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Where have you been?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: What he means is why did you stay
dialog: away?
text: Hector begins like a story-teller embarking on a long
dialog: saga.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well, that's a fair question...
dialog: your mother and I got divorced...
dialog: you're big enough to remember...
dialog: she must have told you all that?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Sure she has... but lots of people
dialog: get divorced... that doesn't mean
dialog: they disappear...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You're right... what can I tell
dialog: you... I went kind of crazy after
dialog: that, for a good while... I came
dialog: around a few times... remember?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Not really.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well, it wasn't easy... everything
dialog: with her and Donald happened
dialog: pretty quickly. I missed you both
dialog: really badly... but for a while I
dialog: thought I should stay away, until
dialog: your mother got settled... no,
dialog: that's not really true... I missed
dialog: you... but I was kind of crazy at
dialog: the same time... your mother and I
dialog: married young... I wasn't used to
dialog: the freedom... it went to my head
dialog: ... then you moved to New Jersey.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 147.
scene_heading: 166 CONTINUED: (2) 166
speaker_heading: BETSY
text: It's forty minutes away on a slow
dialog: bus...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You're right, you're right. I
dialog: don't have too many excuses for
dialog: the first year... the second year
dialog: is easier... I was in jail.
text: Hector is pleased with this. A solid excuse.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: We were doing government work,
dialog: big contracts... there were some
dialog: temptations... my boss asked me
dialog: to shuffle a few papers... there
dialog: was a lot of money in it... I had
dialog: to testify against him... it was
dialog: like killing somebody.
text: Hector thinks about this, remembering the pain. For us
text: there is the echo of the real killing that was done long
dialog: ago.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Thomas wanted to visit you in
dialog: jail, but Mom wouldn't let him. *
text: Hector looks at Thomas.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You did?
text: Thomas nods proudly.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well I appreciate that... but I'm
dialog: glad your mother didn't let you.
dialog: I'll tell you all about it some
dialog: day. It was no fun. One year
dialog: and eight months.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: We didn't even know when you got
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 148.
scene_heading: 166 CONTINUED: (3) 166
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I wasn't in great shape... I sure
dialog: didn't want you to see me then...
dialog: so I got back to work... in real
dialog: estate... found a partner, we met *
dialog: in jail... *
text: The kids look shocked at this. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR *
dialog: No. He's a good man, a good man. *
dialog: I like him. I mean it. He's my *
dialog: friend. *
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: That's what you do now?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Yes. We rent apartments... but
dialog: we want to get into commercial
dialog: property... people are a
dialog: nuisance... does that sound bad?
text: Betsy shrugs her shoulders.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: How should I know?
text: Hector carries on with his story.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Just recently I've been feeling
dialog: good, things have been going
dialog: well... and I missed you two...
dialog: so here we are...
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: What about your girl friend?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Who told you about her?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Nobody.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Anna... she's nice... she wants to
dialog: meet you, real soon... she sells
dialog: flowers... well, you know that...
dialog: and on Monday she's probably going
dialog: to kill me...
text: The kids smile.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 149.
scene_heading: 166 CONTINUED: (4) 166
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Betsy thinks that was her at the
dialog: gas station...
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Shut up, Tom...
text: Hector has to think to remember.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No... heck... no... did you think
dialog: she was following us?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: She's always thinking up stories
dialog: like that... she never stops...
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Well, if people don't tell you
dialog: things...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: She's right, Thomas... people
dialog: should talk more.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: So you haven't been staying away
dialog: because of us?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: What do you mean? Is that what
dialog: you thought? I was avoiding you
dialog: two? No... you mustn't think
dialog: that... that's terrible...
text: They have almost exhausted themselves in this first bout
text: of talking. Hector looks out at the sea.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: The rain's off. Let's go.
scene_heading: 167 EXT. BEACH - DAY 167
text: Betsy and Hector are sitting on the sea wall, watching
text: Thomas play on the beach. The sun is emerging.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I have to ask you something else.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Go on.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 150.
speaker_heading: 167 CONTINUED: 167
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Why did you leave just two days
dialog: before my swimming test?
text: Hector is moved by the depth of her memory, her pain.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I didn't leave because it was two
dialog: days before your test... it was
dialog: just what your mother and I
dialog: decided... I taught you how to
dialog: swim... we went to the pool twice
dialog: a week... why would I leave?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I know... that's what I mean...
dialog: why did you leave just then?
text: Hector looks at Betsy. She is beginning to cry silently.
text: He puts a tentative arm around her shoulder.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Oh, God, Betsy. I'm sorry.
text: Betsy is still crying.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: It doesn't matter.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: How did you do, in the test?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I passed.
text: Hector leaves his limp arm on her shoulder. It is too *
text: soon for gestures of emotion. After a long moment she
dialog: speaks.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I'm a life-saver now.
text: Hector doesn't make the obvious comment. His emotions
text: are full. He hides his feelings in a gruff call to
dialog: Thomas.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Hey, Thomas! We're going home...
dialog: we're having a barbecue... Betsy
dialog: said she'll even let me eat a
dialog: steak!
speaker_heading: BETSY *
dialog: Hurry up, Tom! *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 151. *
scene_heading: 167 CONTINUED: (2) 167
text: Thomas breaks off from his play and runs towards them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Don't call him Tom, he doesn't
dialog: like it.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I'm allowed.
text: Somehow Hector is touched by this.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Your mother said it, when we
dialog: split up... don't lose the
dialog: children... didn't mean much at
dialog: the time. But she was right.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Who said I'd let you eat a steak?
text: There is a silence. Then Hector speaks.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Betsy. On Monday will you come
dialog: with me when I take the flowers
dialog: back to Anna? I can't face her
dialog: alone. She wants to meet you
dialog: anyway.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You'll be there, right beside me?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I'd have to take the morning off
dialog: school.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Is that bad?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: No, that could be good...
text: Betsy and Hector are quite close now.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Just tell them you were with your
dialog: invisible dad.
dialog: 152. *
scene_heading: 168 EXT. BEACH - DAY 168
text: Hector and Betsy are walking on the shore. Thomas tags
text: along behind them.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: What's she like? How did you
dialog: meet her?
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: The funny thing is I fell in love
dialog: with her before I ever saw her...
dialog: I smelled her... It was the day I
dialog: got out of jail... I was on the
text: train and she was sitting behind
dialog: me... it was just this incredible
dialog: perfume... remember I'd been
dialog: inside for nearly two years with
text: four hundred sweating males...
dialog: She got off the train and I
dialog: followed her... I couldn't help
dialog: it... that's how good she is...
text: she listened to a bum who followed
dialog: her off a train...
text: Betsy looks at him kindly.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: ... but she's still going to kill
dialog: me on Monday...
text: They share a laugh. Betsy looks out to the ocean.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I think I'll paint the sunset
dialog: tonight.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: It's just like a big pancake
dialog: up there, isn't it?
text: Betsy doesn't take the bait. There is a silence.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I remember when you two were tiny..
dialog: I used to watch you sleeping... it
dialog: was like now... I felt close to you,
dialog: could touch you... but you weren't
dialog: there... you were gone... dreamland
dialog: ... just when I was closest to you,
dialog: you weren't there... I felt it last
dialog: night, too.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: That's what it's like... you
dialog: should know that.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 153. *
speaker_heading: 168 CONTINUED: 168
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'm not smart about things like
dialog: that, usually.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Don't be so tough on yourself.
dialog: You seem to want to be... you
dialog: don't have to...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: No... we can do that...
text: She smiles. Hector is out of his depth with this
dialog: daughter of his.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Is that a joke?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: No, I mean it... look out for
dialog: yourself...
text: Hector looks at her in wonderment. One of those moments
dialog: when another human being stands before you and is an
dialog: utter mystery.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Who are you? Who's inside
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: You'll never know.
dialog: Future generations of women are going to be just as
dialog: unknowable to our Hectors as past ones were. Betsy
text: moves off briskly along the beach. Hector trails
text: after her, hooked.
scene_heading: 169 EXT. BOAT - DAY 169
text: Betsy and Thomas are in a small fragile rowboat, some
text: distance from the shore. They are watching Hector who
text: is collecting a pile of large stones on the beach.
text: Another Hector and another pile of stones. This one
text: is making a fire for the barbecue. These human rituals
dialog: never stop.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I thought he was taller.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 154.
speaker_heading: 169 CONTINUED: 169
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Well, it's been a while... you're
dialog: bigger.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I suppose so. He's getting fat,
dialog: too. I bet I could beat him at
text: the breast-stroke now.
scene_heading: 170 EXT. BEACH - DAY 170
text: Hector turns from his work. Out at sea the kids look
text: small and vulnerable. Hector is more anxious than he
text: should be, out of practice at fatherhood. He calls to
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Come on in, kids... that boat
dialog: doesn't look too safe...
text: They call back to him.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: We're fine!
text: Hector tries to relax, but he doesn't have the
text: confidence yet, or something. He is edgy.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I've just found you... I don't
dialog: want to lose you. What would I
dialog: tell your mother... come on in...
text: He walks down to the water. The kids reluctantly pull
text: on the oars and bring the little boat in. A few feet
text: from the beach they hit some sand. The boat sticks.
text: Hector wades out in his shoes so far. Then he calls
dialog: to Thomas.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Throw me the rope, Thomas, I'll
dialog: pull you in.
text: Thomas throws the mooring rope to Hector. It isn't
text: attached to the boat. Hector ends up with all of the
text: rope in his hands. He stands there, and they all laugh.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: This is one useless piece of
dialog: rope, Thomas...
text: Just for a moment we have the image of our Hector
text: standing on the shoreline with a length of rope. An
text: image with an echo from six thousand years ago. But
text: this time Hector is laughing, and his kids are safe.
dialog: 155. *
scene_heading: 171 EXT. BEACH - SUNSET 171
text: At the very moment of sunset Betsy is trying to capture
text: it in a watercolor sketch. She has set up an easel on
text: the beach. It's like action painting. She works
text: frantically on the picture, racing the sun as it dips
dialog: into the ocean. Tough little Betsy can even lose
dialog: patience with the sun.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Why does it always go so fast...?
text: Thomas is laughing at her. He has seen her attempt this
text: before. Hector has other concerns. He is trying to
text: light his barbecue. Match after match disappears into
text: his elaborate stone structure, only to fizzle out.
text: The sun finally vanishes, and Betsy goes limp at her
text: easel. The sun has won the race again. She and Thomas
text: watch Hector trying to light the fire. After a while
text: he is conscious of their amused attention on him, then
text: he becomes a little self-conscious.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I used to know how to do this...
text: They laugh a little.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I did... I used to be really
dialog: good at this...
text: He wafts and blows ineffectually at a flicker of flame.
text: There's not much of the caveman about him now.
scene_heading: 172 EXT. BEACH - DUSK 172
text: It is a calm dusk. Hector is turning the meat on the
text: barbecue. He is in a splendid frame of mind.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Ah... smell it... the smell of
dialog: civilization... scorched meat...
text: Hector serves the chicken onto their plates. He sits
text: down beside them with his steak, and a glass of wine.
text: He watches Thomas attack his chicken, and smiles.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'd forgotten that... how you
dialog: eat... dedicated... like it's
dialog: your religion!
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Things I like.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 156.
speaker_heading: 172 CONTINUED: 172
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: You used to hum to yourself too,
dialog: when you ate... like everything
dialog: was fine with the world.
text: Thomas tries it out, eating and humming. It feels good
text: to him. His head nods with the chewing and the tune.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Hey, so I did... I'd forgotten
dialog: about that...
text: The early stars are appearing in the sky. Hector lifts
text: his eyes to a bright point low on the horizon.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: There she is... old Mercury...
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: No... Mercury doesn't rise 'til
dialog: after midnight... that's Jupiter...
text: Hector is impressed by his son.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: I'd forgotten... we used to watch *
dialog: the stars... you could tell me the *
dialog: names of all the planets... you *
dialog: could recite them like a poem...
dialog: remember... at the tiny window
dialog: upstairs in the old house?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Oh well, not to worry. I'm glad
dialog: you still like astronomy though.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: I'm not into star-gazing so much
dialog: ... we're working on computer
dialog: modelling... we're trying to make
dialog: a biosphere...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Uh-huh?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: A self-sustaining life system...
dialog: for inter-stellar travel. But we
dialog: always get a methane build up, it
dialog: doesn't matter what we do...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 157. *
scene_heading: 172 CONTINUED: (2) 172
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: This is at school?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Yeah. We're making such a mess of
dialog: the world, one day we're going to
dialog: have to take off for somewhere
dialog: else...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Sounds like Donald said that...
text: Hector realizes how far his kids have travelled from
text: him. He looks at them.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Well, I'm glad you two are thinking
dialog: about the old planet. I'm proud
dialog: of you. Look how beautiful
dialog: everything is. Sometimes I think
dialog: it's people that make it all
dialog: wrong... we walk around with all
dialog: our problems...
text: Betsy chimes in.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I don't know. If it wasn't for
dialog: us there'd be nobody around to
dialog: see it all.
text: Hector stands to fetch another baked potato from the fire.
text: We see the three of them in a WIDE SHOT, the evening sky
text: now pulsing with more and more points of light. Hector's
text: voice and laughter carry to us.
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Don't worry, you two... I'll tell
dialog: you... it's just a big, black
text: sheet up there with holes in it
dialog: so the light comes through...
dialog: that's the truth... the very
dialog: latest...
text: Hector has come to rest, and found peace at last, however
text: temporary, here on the beach, beneath the same stars that
dialog: our first Hector wailed at six thousand years ago.
dialog: On Monday he will face the music. The kids will go
text: back home, Mrs. Philippopolis will have to be dealt with,
text: and the wilting three hundred dollar bouquet of flowers.
dialog: In general, life will take over, on Monday. But at this
dialog: moment of calm on the beach, let's leave him while he's
dialog: ahead.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 158.
scene_heading: 172 CONTINUED: (3) 172
text: Their voices ring out playfully across the expanse of
text: darkening beach and light-laden sky.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Wait a minute... I know... the
text: whole universe is inside a speck
text: of dust that's lying in a ball of
text: fluff in the cuff of a pair of
text: pants hanging over the back of a
dialog: chair...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: No... I'll tell you... the whole
dialog: thing... stars and everything...
text: is sitting on the skin of a bubble
text: of milk in a bowl of cornflakes...
dialog: and somebody's just about to eat
dialog: it...
text: The three of them are laughing now.
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: Skimmed milk...
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: You don't get bubbles in skimmed
dialog: milk...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Okay... it's half-and-half...
dialog: Perhaps that's just about as close as Hector and his *
dialog: tribe of humans will ever come to working it all out.
dialog: But they try. *
speaker_heading: BETSY
dialog: I've got a better one... we're
text: all inside a speck of pollen
text: that's stuck to the wing of a bee
text: while it sits on a flower...
speaker_heading: HECTOR
dialog: Don't mention flowers, Betsy...
dialog: please, not tonight.
text: And then, after a long, long pause. *
speaker_heading: HECTOR *
dialog: I have an idea, Betsy... we're *
dialog: inside a pancake... what d'you *
dialog: think? *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 159.
scene_heading: 172 CONTINUED: (4) 172
speaker_heading: BETSY *
dialog: Why are you always talking about *
dialog: pancakes... what's wrong with you? *
speaker_heading: THOMAS *
dialog: You've got pancakes on the brain. *
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
