dialog: 
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Written by
dialog: Richard LaGravenese
dialog: Based on the Novel by
dialog: Toni Morrison
dialog: October 11, 1996
dialog: FADE IN...
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - DAWN.
text: It is winter in Ohio. A house sits isolated beside a barren
text: field. The field stretches beyond, until a line of distant
text: woods stops it. Around the back of the house stands a rundown
text: STORAGE SHED, a cold house, a privy and a water pump. A porch
text: with a single door serves as the only entrance.
text: Camera begins a slow move toward the house as we;
speaker_heading: SUPER - OHIO, 1865
text: WE HEAR SOUNDS from inside the house - BUMPS, A CHAIR FALLING
text: OVER...and FEET RUNNING on wooden floor boards.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - DAWN.
text: C.U. - THE HANDS OF TWO BROTHERS HOLDING EACH OTHER AS THEY
text: RUN DOWN THE STAIRS..
text: BULGAR (13 yrs. old) and HOWARD (14 yrs. old) run down the
text: steps from the second floor. They are fully dressed, carrying
text: a small bag of belongings.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: We gonna need food. Wait here.
text: Bulgar reluctantly lets go of Howard's hand as the latter
text: runs into the kitchen. Alone, he edges towards the front
dialog: door, when suddenly;
text: THE DOOR SLOWLY CREAKS OPEN on it's own. Scared, he steps
text: away slowly.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAWN.
text: Howard is trying to toss some food into a bag. He spots A
text: CAKE sitting on top the wooden table, with some pieces
text: already eaten. He finds a knife and approaches the table.
text: He is about to cut into the cake when he sees TWO TINY HAND
text: PRINTS appear on the cake's surface. Howard stops cold -
text: dropping the knife.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT ENTRANCE - DAWN.
text: Howard exits the kitchen and takes Bulgar's hand;
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Come on!
speaker_heading: DENVER (OS)
dialog: Bul?
text: The boys look up the stairs and see their baby sister, nine
text: year old DENVER.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Where you goin?
text: The brothers are brokenhearted at the sight of her. They love
dialog: their sister. But there are stronger forces here.
text: A MIRROR on a wall beside Howard cracks down the middle.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: We gotta go!
text: Bulgar looks up to Denver. They exchange a look of deep
text: affection and pained longing. He wants to take her.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Bye, Denver. You take care.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Bye? Bul?
text: Bulgar is starting to cry. He rushes up the steps and hugs
text: his sister. He kisses her hard then breaks away. Denver's
text: outstretched hand misses his shirt and hangs mid-air.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No..Bul...
text: Bulgar flies down the steps and disappears out of the house
text: holding Howard's hand once more.
text: Denver sits alone at the top of the stairs. She sadly looks
text: up and weeps, as if to the house itself:
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Now what you go and do that for?
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD TO THE TRAIN - DAWN.
text: THE VOICE OF SETHE HUMMING A MELODY carries over the images
dialog: of:
text: The two boys running for their lives towards the train,
text: holding hands all the way. Howard is the first to reach it.
text: As it passes by, he throws his bag upon it and jumps in.
text: Bulgar races beside it as Howard reaches for him.
text: C.U. - HOWARD'S HAND reaching for BULGAR's...They connect.
text: WIDE SHOT - The boys are on the train as it leaves town.
text: On it's route, the train passes a ramshackle GRAVEYARD.
text: CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY INTO THE GRAVEYARD until it reaches A
text: HEADSTONE, made with flecked pink stone. Upon the headstone
dialog: is only one word:
scene_heading: BELOVED.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - CONTINUOUS.
text: Camera moves slowly towards the side exterior of 124, into a
text: Close-Up of a WOMAN looking out of a second floor bedroom
text: window. It is SETHE, mother of the two boys and Denver. She
text: hums her melody, softly, sadly, with a resigned understanding
text: of why her boys are running away...and a deep pain that is
text: too constant to notice.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT;
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. 124 - BABY SUGGS BEDROOM - LATER THAT DAY.
text: BABY SUGGS, grandmother and mother-in-law to Sethe, sits in
text: her bed fondling colored fabric of BRIGHT GREEN..It is the
text: only vibrant color in an otherwise drab surrounding. Suggs is
text: bed-ridden, exhausted to her bones - her face a mosaic of
dialog: suffering and sacrifice and tested faith.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Ya know what I'd love to see? I loved to
dialog: see me some lavender. You got any
dialog: lavender? Or even pink - pink'll do.
text: Sethe is placing folded laundry into a dresser. She stops and
text: checks her pockets for rags or swatches...She looks around
dialog: the room..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No. Sorry.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Ah, winter in Ohio is especially rough if
dialog: you've got an appetite for color.
text: Suggs goes back to contemplating her green until;
speaker_heading: SETHE (OS)
dialog: Oh wait...
text: Suggs looks up to see Sethe sticking her pink tongue out at
text: her. Suggs smiles.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Oh, that's fine. Fine.
text: Sethe lets out a small laugh. She walks toward the window,
text: stretching her body. Her expression changes as she thinks of
text: her boys. Baby Suggs reads her like a book.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: They'll be all right. I'm surprised they
dialog: lasted here this long.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I don't know. Maybe we should have moved.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: What'd be the point? Not a house in the
dialog: country ain't packed to the rafters with
dialog: some dead Negro's grief. We lucky our
dialog: ghost is a baby. My husband spirit come
dialog: back? Or yours? Don't talk to me! Ha..You
dialog: lucky. You got one child left, still
dialog: pullin at your skirts. Be thankful. I had
dialog: eight. Eight with six fathers. Every one
dialog: of them gone from me. Four taken, four
dialog: chased and all, I expect, worrying
dialog: somebody's house into evil. My first born
dialog: - alls I can remember of her now is how
dialog: she loved the burned bottom of bread. Her
dialog: little hands..I wouldn't know'em if they
dialog: slapped me. Can you beat that? Eight
dialog: children and that's all I remember.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (returning to her work)
dialog: You remember Halle.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Oh, I remember bits and pieces of all
dialog: of'em I guess..Halle, of course..I had
dialog: Halle a lifetime. Almost twenty years...
dialog: My two girls, sold and gone before I
dialog: could even a heard about it, and them
dialog: without their grown up teeth yet. My
dialog: third child, my son after Halle...I let
dialog: that straw boss have me for four months
dialog: so's I could keep that boy. Next year, he
dialog: had him traded for lumber anyway and me
dialog: pregnant with his child. I couldn't love
dialog: that child. I wouldn't. Not any of the
dialog: rest either. God take what He
dialog: would....and He did...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: The boys wouldn't have left if Halle were
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Those boys didn't even know him. You had
dialog: six whole years of marriage to my Halle
dialog: Fathered every one of your children. A
dialog: blessing. I learned hard that a man's
dialog: just a man, but a son like that...like
dialog: Halle..now that's somebody.
text: Sethe's mixed feelings show all over her face. Although she
text: loved Halle, there is clearly something unresolved in her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Just got a few more things to do, then
dialog: I'll start supper.
text: Sethe exits.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - LATE DAY.
text: Denver is playing in the front yard by herself.
text: Sethe is pumping water into a bucket for clothes washing. A
text: gentle breeze carries a LEAF into the bucket. Sethe sees it
text: floating atop the water for a moment, then picks it up.
text: C.U. of SETHE as the image triggers a feeling - and the
dialog: feeling a memory - from long ago.
text: Sethe looks around her and finds she is no longer standing in
dialog: the barren field of 124...but rather-
speaker_heading: MEMORY;
scene_heading: EXT. SWEET HOME - LATE DAY.
text: A stunning vista of the plantation SWEET HOME - sun beating
text: down on groves and rows of gorgeous sycamores for as far as
text: the eye can see. Sethe's figure dwarfed by the majestic
dialog: landscape.
text: Sethe looks frightened. Her breathing grows shallow. She
dialog: hears something;
text: THE SOUND OF A WAGON'S WHEELS - rolling over a road, growing
text: louder, coming towards her
speaker_heading: INTERCUT;
scene_heading: C.U. OF A WAGON WHEEL MOVING RAPIDLY ON A ROAD. CAMERA PANS
scene_heading: UP TO THE MAN DRIVING THE WAGON - A STERN WHITE MAN WEARING A
scene_heading: DISTINCTIVE HAT...
text: SETHE TURNS away from the sycamores towards the road to see;
scene_heading: END OF MEMORY;
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE - LATE DAY.
text: A MAN driving a horse and wagon with two children in the
text: back, coming up Bluestone Road. He wears no hat.
text: Sethe breathes easily. She looks around her -the reality of
text: 124's barren field has returned. The memory of Sweet Home's
text: sycamores have vanished.
text: Denver is playing near the road. As the wagon nears 124,
text: Denver looks up and smiles. The Man whips the horse hard so
text: as to ride past the house faster. The children stare at
text: Denver and 124, with horror and curiosity.
text: The stares of the children destroy Denver's smile. She
text: watches them go, then turns to hide her upset and sees her
text: mother watching her.
text: Sethe looks to Denver with empathy and impotence: wanting to
text: ease her daughter's pain and knowing full well she cannot.
text: Hurt and angry, Denver runs past Sethe, towards the woods.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - LATE DAY.
text: Denver runs with a purpose, knowing exactly where she is
dialog: going.
text: She reaches FIVE BOXWOOD BUSHES planted in a ring. The tall
text: bushes stretch toward each other four feet off the ground,
text: forming a round, emerald room in the center, seven feet high,
text: with walls fifty inches thick of murmuring leaves.
text: This is Denver's private place. She bends low and crawls
text: through the leaves into the center. Once there, this lonely
text: child wipes away her tears and tries to pull herself
text: together. She lays her face against the cool earth.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - NIGHT.
text: Denver walks to her room in her night dress. She passes the
text: opened door of her mother's bedroom and peeks in:
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.
text: Sethe kneeling by her bed, as if praying...
text: Beside Sethe, A WHITE DRESS KNEELS as well, with it's sleeve
text: around Sethe's waist. Like two friendly grown-up women,
text: comforting each other in prayer.
text: Denver tip toes away.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER'S ROOM - NIGHT.
text: Sethe enters to check on Denver, whom she thinks is asleep.
text: She leans over and kisses her forehead, only to discover she
dialog: is awake;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Mama?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What is it baby?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You think maybe when daddy comes, he
dialog: could talk to the baby ghost. Maybe make
dialog: her behave and then people won't be
dialog: scared of here no more.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Why won't she ever settle?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: She's mad like a baby gets mad. You
dialog: forgetting how little it is. She wasn't
dialog: even two years old when she died. Too
dialog: little to understand.
speaker_heading: DENVER
text: For a baby she throws a powerful spell.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No more powerful than the way I loved her.
text: Hearing her mother say this, moves Denver.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: What do you pray for Mama?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Oh, I don't really pray anymore. I just
dialog: talk.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Oh, about time. How some things go. Pass
dialog: on. Some things just stay.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: What things?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Like, the place I was at before here -
dialog: Sweet Home. Even if that whole farm and
dialog: every tree and blade of grass on it died -
dialog: it'll still be there. Waiting. And if you
dialog: go and stand in the place where it was,
dialog: what happened there once, will happen
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: If it's still there, waiting, that mean
dialog: nothing ever dies?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Nothing ever does. That's why I had to
dialog: get my children out. No matter what.
dialog: That's why you can never go there.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You never tell me all what happened. Just
dialog: that they whipped you and you run off
dialog: pregnant with me.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You don't need to know nothing else.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: (nods)
dialog: I saw a white dress kneeling next to you
dialog: when you was praying.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: White? Maybe it was my bedding dress.
dialog: Describe it to me.
speaker_heading: DENVER
text: Had a high neck. Whole mess of buttons
text: coming down the back.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Buttons. Well, that's not my bedding
dialog: dress. I never had a button on nothing.
dialog: What else?
speaker_heading: DENVER
text: A bunch at the back. On the sit down
dialog: part.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: A bustle?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I don't know what it's called.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You say it was holding on to me. How?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Kneeling next to you while you were
dialog: praying. I mean, talking. It looked just
dialog: like you.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Well, I'll be.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I think it was a sign. I think maybe
dialog: baby's got plans.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What plans?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I don't know, but that dress holding onto
dialog: you got to mean something.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Maybe. Maybe it does.
text: Sethe smiles sympathetically for her lonely child. They hear
text: a sound in the house - floor boards creaking.
speaker_heading: DENVER
text: She's crawling again.
text: Sethe nods and holds her daughter's hand as they listen.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT;
speaker_heading: SUPER: 1873.
speaker_heading: FADE IN;
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - DAY.
scene_heading: C.U. - PAUL D. GARNER.
text: Paul stands on the road, gazing up at the house. Grateful
text: he's arrived, cautious about what he'll find, he steps
text: towards the porch. His clothes are ragged. His feet sore and
text: blistering in his shoes.
scene_heading: EXT. THE PUMP - DAY.
text: Off to the side of the house, Sethe washes her feet and legs
text: at the pump. She looks up and sees Paul's figure walking
text: towards the house. The sun blazes in her eyes. She can't make
text: out who it is, or whether or not he's even real. As he
text: reaches the porch, Paul disappears from view.
text: Sethe walks towards the front of the house. When she is
text: little more than forty feet away, she stops - still not
text: certain Paul is a real man or an hallucination of the past.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Paul? Paul D.? Is that you?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: What's left.
dialog: (He rises)
dialog: How you been girl, besides barefoot?
text: Sethe jams her balled up stockings into her pocket. She
text: smiles like a little girl, not able to believe her eyes.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You looking good.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Devil's confusion. He lets me look good
dialog: long as I feel bad.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: How long has it been?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: 'Bout eighteen years, I figure.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Eighteen years.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: And I swear I been walking every one of
dialog: them. Mind if I join you?
text: He begins taking off his shoes.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You want to soak them? Let me get you
dialog: some water.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: No, uh, uh. Can't baby feet. A whole more
dialog: tramping they got to do yet.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You're not leaving right away, are you?
dialog: You stay awhile.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Well, long enough to see Baby Suggs,
dialog: you..Where is she?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Dead.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Aw no. When?
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: Eight years now. Almost nine.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Was it hard? I hope she didn't die hard.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Soft as cream. Being alive was the hard
dialog: part. Sorry you missed her though. Is
dialog: that what you came by for?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: That's some of what I came for. The rest
dialog: is you.
text: Sethe doesn't know what to do with her eyes when he says
text: this..she looks away instinctively. Paul realizes that may
text: have sounded too intimate so he leans back and sighs:
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: The truth be known, I go anywhere these
dialog: days. Anywhere they let me sit down.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Come on inside.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Porch is fine. Cool out here. Sit with
dialog: me.
text: Like a nervous little girl, Sethe takes a sit beside a man
text: for the first time in years, folding her sweat stained skirt
text: beneath her.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: So Baby Suggs is gone. Somehow never
dialog: thought death would find her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: It finds everyone.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: We managed well enough without meeting
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I suppose.
text: Awkward pause. Sethe tries to find the words to a difficult
dialog: question - but one that is foremost in her mind;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I wouldn't have to ask about him, would
dialog: I?...You'd tell me if there was anything
dialog: to tell, wouldn't you?
text: Paul knows instantly she is asking about Halle.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You know I would. But I don't know any
dialog: more about what happened to Halle now
dialog: than I did then.
text: Something about Paul's expression might suggest he's keeping
text: something from her. He turns his gaze outward as he says;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You must think he's still alive.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No. I think he's dead. It's just not
dialog: being sure that keeps him alive.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What did Baby Suggs think?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Same. Ha, listen to her, all her children
dialog: dead and she felt each one go the very
dialog: day and hour it happened.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: When she say Halle went?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: 1855. Same day my baby was born.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You had that baby, did you? Damn, never
dialog: thought you'd make it. Running off
dialog: pregnant.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Had to. Couldn't be no waiting.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: All by yourself too.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Almost. A white girl helped me.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Then she helped herself, God bless her.
text: Awkward silence.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: We got spare rooms. You could stay the
dialog: night, if you had a mind to.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You don't sound too steady in the offer.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Oh it's..it's truly meant. I just hope
dialog: you'll pardon my house.
text: Paul smiles a warm, touched smile that after all that they've
dialog: survived, Sethe is worried about what he'll think of her
dialog: home.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: My house. I like the sound of that.
text: Sethe smiles, then rises to escort him in.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - DAY.
text: Sethe opens the front door and enters, with Paul behind her,
text: hanging his shoes by the laces over his shoulder. As he
text: follows her in;
text: A POOL OF RED, UNDULATING LIGHT forms around him. It worries
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You got company?
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: On and off.
text: The light undulates faster and faster, extending all the way
text: to the kitchen at the end of the hall. Frightened, Paul steps
text: back out the door.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Good God! What kind of evil you got in
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: It's not evil..It's just..just sad. Come
dialog: on. Just step through.
text: Sethe reaches out her hand. Paul tentatively takes it and is
text: lead through the red light of the hallway, through to the
text: kitchen where it ends.
text: As he walks through, we can see Paul affected by the light.
text: It is sad. A sadness that touches him, welling up inside
text: until tears are brimming in his eyes. He reaches the normal
text: light of the kitchen and steps out of it.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY.
text: Paul turns back to find the red light in the hall is gone.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I thought you said she died soft as cream.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (busying herself in kitchen)
dialog: Oh that's not Baby Suggs. That's my
dialog: daughter. The one I sent ahead with the
dialog: boys before I run off.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: She didn't live?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: The boys too?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No, they alive - they run off before Baby
dialog: Suggs died. The one I was carrying when I
dialog: left Sweet Home is all I got left.
text: Still affected by the light, Paul eases himself down at the
text: table, finding something to say.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Well, probably best..If a Negro boy got
dialog: legs he ought to use them. Sit down too
dialog: long, somebody figure out a way to tie
dialog: them up.......
dialog: (the image disturbs Sethe)
dialog: You by yourself then?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Me and Denver... my daughter.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: No man?
dialog: (Sethe shakes head "no")
dialog: And that's all right by you?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: It's all right by me...I cook at a
text: restaurant in town. Sew a little on the
dialog: sly....
text: She places a bottle and a glass on the table before him. The
text: light jarred him. He snatches the bottle to drink and calm
text: himself down. She jokes.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You look more done in by a walk through
dialog: my front hall than all those eighteen
dialog: years of walking put together.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Got that right.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR OF 124 - MORNING.
text: Denver, all of eighteen years old now, and beautiful, is
text: buttoning up her dress when she hears the voice of a man down
text: in the kitchen. She stops. Her face lights up.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Daddy?
text: She runs down the white staircase.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING.
text: As Denver runs into the kitchen, we hear:
speaker_heading: SETHE (OS)
dialog: Won't you stay a little while? Can't
dialog: nobody catch up on eighteen years in a
dialog: day.
text: Denver appears expectantly, down the white staircase that
text: leads from the second floor. She looks at Paul wide eyed.
text: They turn to her with gentle smiles;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Baby, this here's Paul D. Garner...Paul,
dialog: this is my Denver...Paul's the last of
dialog: the Sweet Home men.
text: Denver's heart sinks.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Good morning Miss Denver. It's a
dialog: pleasure.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Good morning, Mr. D.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Garner, baby. Paul D. Garner.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Glad to get a look at you. Last time I
dialog: saw your mama, you were pushing out the
text: front of her dress. She's a fine looking
dialog: young lady, Sethe. Fine looking. Got her
dialog: daddy's sweet face.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You knew my father?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Knew him. Knew him well.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Of course he did. I told you, he's from
dialog: Sweet Home. Paul may stay with us a
dialog: while. Won't that be nice, having an old
dialog: friend stay a spell?
text: But Denver reacts with surprise and dismay. Paul is not her
text: friend. Paul, right now, is more of an intruder.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: If that's all right with you, that is?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: We have a ghost here, you know.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: We met. But sad, your mama said. Not
dialog: evil.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No sir, not evil. But not sad either.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What then?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Lonely.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I don't see how it could be lonely
dialog: spending every minute with us like it
dialog: does.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: It's my sister. She was just a baby when
dialog: she died in this house.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Reminds me of that headless bride back
dialog: behind Sweet Home. Remember that Sethe?
dialog: Used to roam them woods regular.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: (annoyed, resentful)
dialog: Mama doesn't like talk about Sweet Home.
dialog: Says it was never sweet and it sure
dialog: wasn't home.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Girl, mind yourself!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Now, now, she got it right there, Sethe.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: But it's where we were. All together.
dialog: It's where I met your father. And it
dialog: comes back on us whether we want it to or
dialog: not....
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Then why don't you ever tell me about it?
text: Sethe pauses - unnerved and irritated by Denver's challenge.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Denver, start up the stove. Paul must be
dialog: hungry.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Don't go to no trouble on my account.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Bread's no trouble. The rest I brought
dialog: back from where I work. Least I can do,
dialog: cooking dawn to noon, is bring dinner
dialog: home. You got any objections to pike?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: If he don't object to me I don't object
dialog: to him.
text: He addresses his humor to Denver who offers no response. She
text: crosses to the stove and works on lighting it. She's mad.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Where's he going to sleep? Baby Sugg's
dialog: room got no sheets or nothing.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: We'll figure it out.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Maybe you should stay with mama, Mr.
dialog: Garner. Then you two can talk about Sweet
dialog: Home all night long.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (explodes)
dialog: What's the matter with you! I never knew
dialog: you to behave like this!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Leave her be, Sethe. I'm a stranger to her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: That's just it. She got no cause to act
text: up with a stranger.
text: Denver collapses where she stands, sobbing out loud. Sethe
text: moves to her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Baby, what is it? Did something happen?
text: Denver moves away. Sethe registers this rejection.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I can't no more! I can't no more!
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Can't what? What can't you?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I can't live here! I don't know where to
dialog: go or what to do but I can't live here.
text: Nobody speaks to us. Nobody comes by.
dialog: Nobody even knows I'm alive.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What she talking about 'nobody speaks to
dialog: you'?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: It's the house. People don't...
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: It's not! It's not the house! It's us!
dialog: It's you!
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Denver!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Leave off, Sethe. It's hard for a young
dialog: girl living in a haunted place. That
dialog: can't be easy.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (growing irritated)
dialog: It's easier than some other things. Come
dialog: here, baby..
text: Denver allows herself to be held.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I'm a grown man with nothing new left to
dialog: see or do and I'm telling you it' ain't
dialog: easy. Maybe you oughta move.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sethe!
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No. No moving. No leaving. It's all right
dialog: the way it is.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You going to tell me it's all right with
dialog: this child half out of her mind.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (holding Denver in her arms)
dialog: I got a tree on my back and a haunt in my
dialog: house and nothing in between but the
dialog: daughter I'm holding in my arms. No more
dialog: running - from nothing! I will never run
dialog: from another thing on this earth, you
dialog: hear! I took one journey and I paid the
dialog: ticket but let me tell you something,
dialog: Paul D. Garner; it cost too much! Do you
dialog: hear me?! It cost too much! Now sit down
dialog: and eat with us or leave us be!
text: Sethe's sudden outburst startles Paul. He watches as Sethe
text: ushers Denver out to the keeping room off the kitchen to
dialog: quiet her down.
text: Alone, Paul is disturbed by Sethe's words. He fishes out a
text: pouch of tobacco and concentrates on it, searching for
text: smoking papers he knows he doesn't have...waiting for Sethe
dialog: to return.
text: When she does, she heads straight for the stove. She spits on
text: her finger and touches it to check it's heat. She then begins
dialog: to make bread from flour, soda and salt - keeping her back to
text: Paul throughout - as the scene continues;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What tree, Sethe?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What tree on your back? I don't see
dialog: nothing growing on your back.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: It's there all the same.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Who told you that?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: White girl. That's what she called it. I
dialog: never seen it and never will. But she
dialog: said that's what it looked like. A
dialog: chokecherry tree. Leaves, branches. That
dialog: was 18 years ago. Could have cherries by
dialog: now for all I know...
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I don't follow.
text: Sethe pauses. Something in her decides to tell Paul D,
text: although she keeps working on the bread to stay in control;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I had milk, see. I was pregnant with
dialog: Denver but I had milk for my baby girl
dialog: that I sent ahead with the boys. I hadn't
dialog: stopped nursing her when I sent her and
dialog: the boys ahead of me. Anybody could smell
dialog: me long before they saw me. Nothing I
dialog: could do about it. All I knew is I had to
dialog: get my milk to my little girl. Nobody was
dialog: going to nurse her like me. Nobody was
dialog: going to get it to her fast enough or
dialog: take it away when she had enough..nobody
dialog: knew she couldn't pass her air if you
dialog: held her up on your shoulder, only if she
dialog: was lying on your knee..Nobody knew that
dialog: but me...
text: Paul listens, half dreading where he thinks this story's going.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: We was talking about a tree, Sethe.
dialog: Sethe works faster. It is the work, taking an action - any
text: action - that allows her tell the story numbly, without the
text: pain of reliving it...without the images attacking
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Schoolteacher's boys drag me into the
dialog: barn and took my milk...
dialog: ....yet, the images come anyway.
text: INTERCUT: FLASHES OF MEMORY attack as SETHE TELLS HER
text: STORY...
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BARN - A NIGHT REMEMBERED.
text: - Sethe being raped, beaten, held down by SCHOOLTEACHER'S
text: BOYS in a barn with a loft...
speaker_heading: SETHE (IN KITCHEN)
dialog: ..Held me down in that barn and took it.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT TO:
text: Sethe screams and is smacked across the face.
speaker_heading: SETHE (IN KITCHEN)
dialog: They were like boulders on me. Their
text: hands over my mouth and on my shoulders
dialog: and my legs.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT TO:
text: One of the boys holds her face and mouth and head as the two
text: others hold down her body and ravage her....
speaker_heading: SETHE (IN KITCHEN)
dialog: I couldn't move. Alls I could see was the
text: loft above their heads.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT TO:
text: Her mouth covered, her head immobile - she stares up at the
dialog: loft.
text: END OF MEMORY IMAGES.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: The loft?
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - PRESENT DAY.
text: Sethe squeezes her eyes to erase the image and works harder
text: on the biscuit dough...The flashes of IMAGES STOP...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I told Mrs. Garner on them. She had that
text: lump on her neck and couldn't speak but
dialog: her eyes rolled out tears, I remember.
dialog: Them boys found out I told on 'em and
dialog: Schoolteacher made one open up my back,
dialog: and when it closed it made a tree.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: They used cowhide on you?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: And they took my milk.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: They beat you and you was pregnant?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: And they took my milk!
text: Sethe has separated the dough into biscuits which she slips
text: into the stove. As she rises, Paul steps gently behind her.
text: He slowly caresses her breasts from behind, pressing his
text: cheek against her back.. He rubs his cheek against it,
text: feeling the scars beneath the dress. Raising his fingers to
text: the hooks, as Sethe cries silently, he undoes her dress which
text: slips down to her hips, exposing the sculpture her back has
dialog: become.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Aw Lord, girl.
dialog: Grateful to have her body be someone else's responsibility
text: for the moment, Sethe closes her eyes as Paul touches every
text: ridge and leaf of her tree with his mouth. The tenderness is
text: almost unbearable.
text: Suddenly, PAUL'S LEGS BEGIN TREMBLING. He pauses and looks
text: down...He realizes it is not his legs that tremble, but
dialog: rather;
text: THE FLOORBOARDS THEMSELVES ARE PITCHING, GRINDING, SHOVING
text: the house from side to side.
text: Sethe slides to the floor, struggling with her dress.
text: On all fours, Denver crawls in from the keeping room as if
text: trying to keep the house together.
text: Paul, falling, reaching for an anchor, begins to shout;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: GOD DAMN IT! HUSH UP! Leave this place
dialog: alone! Get the hell outta here!
text: A table rushes at him but Paul grabs it's leg. Managing to
text: stand at an angle as the house continues to pitch, he holds
text: the table by two legs and bashes it about, wrecking
text: everything, screaming at the house;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: YOU WANT TO FIGHT, COME ON! GOD DAMN IT!
text: SHE GOT ENOUGH WITHOUT YOU! SHE GOT ENOUGH!
text: The quaking slows to an occasional lurch but Paul does not
text: stop whipping the table around until everything it is
text: absolutely still. He leans against the wall, panting.
text: Sethe is crouched by the stove. A mixed expression of relief
text: and guilt - the expression of a mother whose disobedient
text: child has been sent away. But a child she loves nonetheless.
text: Denver looks frightened. More alone than ever, now that her
text: one companion is gone.
text: All three are breathing together as if to the same beat, like
dialog: one tired person.
speaker_heading: LAP DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - LATER THAT DAY..
text: Denver walks through the broken furniture and dishes. At the
text: stove, she ashes over the fire and pulls the pan of biscuits
dialog: from the oven,
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - CONTINUOUS.
text: A shirtless Paul D. is by the water pump washing himself.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS.
text: Denver lifts the fallen jelly cupboard, it's contents laying
text: in a heap in the corner of the bottom shelf. She takes out a
text: jar. She looks for a plate and finds half of one by the
text: broken table. She picks it up as she hears Paul enter through
text: the front door.
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGGS BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS.
text: Sethe prepares a bed for Paul. Baby Suggs quilt is on the
text: bed. She hesitates whether or not to leave it there.
text: Paul stands by the door with his shoes in his bands, his
text: shirt hanging open down the front.
text: Sethe is surprised to see him there - she feels awkward.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Why don't you...take a rest..I'll call
dialog: you when we're ready.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sure you don't want me to help clean up?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No..you'd just get in my way. Denver and
dialog: me'll do it.
text: They stand in silence, looking at each other for a moment.
text: The awkwardness they both feel strike them suddenly as funny.
text: Paul starts smiling. Sethe covers her mouth to conceal it.
text: And then, just as quickly, the urge to laugh subsides - and
text: the fear they feel takes it's place.
text: Paul slowly closes the door and places his shoes on the
text: floor. Sethe watches him. Paul crosses to her. He moves in to
text: kiss her. They approach each other's lips like two burn
text: victims, trying desperately not to hurt the other with their
dialog: touch.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - CONTINUOUS.
text: Denver sits on the porch steps, alone once again. Miserably
text: eating the biscuit and jelly off of a half broken plate.
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGGS BEDROOM - MINUTES LATER.
text: Sethe and Paul lay in bed, after lovemaking. They are still
text: fully clothed. The lovemaking was fast and finished quickly.
text: Now, there is an awkwardness that is without humor or
text: excitement - but sits like a chasm between them.
text: As Sethe lays there, SHE REMEMBERS:
speaker_heading: MEMORY:
text: EXT. THE CORN FIELDS OF SWEET HOME - A DAY REMEMBERED.
text: A brilliant bright yellow and green corn stalks in a tiny
dialog: corn field.
text: Sethe and a slightly older HALLE - handsome, strong - run
text: through the field until Halle stops them at an isolated spot.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: How's this?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Here?! out in the open?!
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: Look around - can you see anybody?
text: Sethe looks and can see nothing through the corn stalks. She
text: shakes her head no.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: Then nothing can see us neither.
text: He takes off his shirt. Seethe giggles as she gets on the
text: ground, keeping her ankles crossed.
text: Halle lays her back and gently separates her legs. She
text: giggles. Halle pauses before laying on top of her.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: You are a beautiful sight.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't talk stupid.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: You're my wife now! I can talk as stupid
dialog: as I like about you!
dialog: (she giggles)
dialog: I ain't never loved nothing like you
dialog: before, Sethe.
dialog: (Sethe is moved)
dialog: And after I get mama out...then I get us
dialog: out too. And you'll see, baby girl...
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: we're gonna have us a liiife..
text: He sings the word "life", so that Sethe laughs. Then, Halle
text: lowers himself slowly to her and they begin to make love. As
text: camera pans up to a HILL above the field, we hear Sethe ask;
speaker_heading: SETHE (O.S.)
dialog: You sure nobody can see?
text: We hear Halle grunt "uh-huh" as we arrive on the hill where a
text: GREAT TREE sits.
scene_heading: EXT. GREAT TREE ON THE HILL - DAY.
text: Beneath the tree, PAUL D, SIXO and Paul's brothers Paul A.
text: and Paul P. are pouring water over heads and watching;
text: POV; Unbeknownst to Halle and Sethe, their lovemaking is in
dialog: clear view to anyone on the hill...
speaker_heading: PAUL A
dialog: Damn. I don't get why she picked him.
speaker_heading: PAUL D
dialog: Halle's got that way about him. That way
text: a woman feels he's doing it all for her,
dialog: not for himself at all.
speaker_heading: PAUL A
dialog: I can't see nothing so special about Halle.
speaker_heading: PAUL F
dialog: What about what he's doing for his mama?
speaker_heading: PAUL A
dialog: Fool thing, if you ask me. By the time he
dialog: buys it, freedom won't mean a thing to
dialog: somebody that old and worn.
speaker_heading: SIXO
dialog: Freedom mean something anytime it come.
text: The men watch the corn stalks swaying to the lovemaking.
text: A YOUNG PAUL D., in particular, watches with tender yearning.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN AT SWEET HOME - EARLY EVENING.
text: MR. GARNER, the man who owns and runs Sweet Home. He offers
dialog: cooked corn to the men.
speaker_heading: MR. GARNER
dialog: Raccoon must've got into my corn. Damaged
dialog: a few so, no use throwing them out...
text: The men looks to each other, suppressing a laugh.
speaker_heading: MR. GARNER
dialog: Sethe, get the butter there.
text: Everyone looks at each other as they thank No. Garner and
text: begin to smear butter on their corn and eat.
text: A NEIGHBORING FARMER visiting the Garner's cautions him;
speaker_heading: NEIGHBORING FARMER
dialog: You spoil these nigger boys.
speaker_heading: GARNER
dialog: Maybe you got boys on your farm. My
dialog: nigger's are men. Not a boy among'em.
dialog: Bought 'em thataway, raised'em thataway.
speaker_heading: NEIGHBORING FARMER
dialog: Beg to differ Garner. Ain't no nigger men.
speaker_heading: GARNER
dialog: Not if you scared. But if you a man
dialog: yourself, you'll want your niggers to be
dialog: men too.
speaker_heading: NEIGHBORING FARMER
dialog: Wouldn't have no nigger men around my
dialog: wife.
speaker_heading: GARNER
dialog: Neither would I..Neither would I.
text: Sethe hides a smile as she hands a piece of corn to Halle.
text: Paul A and Paul F hesitate as they think of eating the corn
text: which the lovers consummated. But Sixo digs right in.
text: Paul D eats slowly, his eyes never leaving Sethe as she moves
text: Around the kitchen, her eyes never leaving Halle...Paul's
text: Attraction and love for her are apparent.
scene_heading: END OF MEMORY;
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S BEDROOM - EARLY EVENING.
text: C.U. on PAUL, on his back, turned away from Sethe.
text: What began as Sethe's memory, has blended into Paul's.
text: Sethe rises off the bed, breaking the thick silence between them:
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I'll call you when there's something to
dialog: eat.
text: She exits, leaving Paul alone on the bed.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - THE FOLLOWING DAY.
text: We see the house now. No creaking or sounds of breaking
text: furniture. Just the sound of Paul D. singing.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY.
text: Paul is singing as he fixes the table he broke while driving
text: the baby ghost away.
text: Denver is sweeping the floor - irritated by Paul's presence
dialog: and voice.
text: They both hear the front door open as Sethe arrives home from
dialog: work.
text: They look to each other to see which one will make a move for
text: Sethe first. Paul knows enough to bide his time with Denver.
text: He watches as she places the broom down and exits the
dialog: kitchen.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - NIGHT.
text: Paul and Sethe sit on the porch together. Sethe is sewing.
text: Paul nervously gets up his nerve to ask:
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sethe.
dialog: (she stops and looks)
dialog: I was thinking of looking for work around
dialog: here. What do you think?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Ain't much. River mostly. And hogs.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Hogs is fine.
text: Paul moves to where Sethe is sitting.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I don't need much, Sethe. Eat, sleep,
dialog: sing a little when it strikes me. I don't
dialog: ask for more to..to live somewhere.
text: Sethe realizes what he is asking and tentatively responds:
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: All right. It's...it's fine with me.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Your girl Denver. Seems she's of a
dialog: different mind.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't worry about her. She's a charmed
dialog: child. Nothing ever touch her too bad.
dialog: From the beginning. Everybody I knew dead
text: or gone, but not her.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: You got to know something, though - this
dialog: here ain't no better life. It's just not
dialog: that other one. What I do here - all I
dialog: ever do - is keep Denver from that
dialog: other..So if you stay, there's no more
dialog: talk about Sweet Home or anything else. I
dialog: won't let the past in my yard again.
dialog: Getting me and Denver through this here
dialog: life is all that matters. You understand?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Dangerous to love anything that much,
dialog: Sethe. Best thing is to love everything
dialog: just a little bit..that way, when it
dialog: breaks or runs off or gets taken, well
dialog: maybe you'd have a little love left over
dialog: for the next one.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't be asking me to choose, Paul D.
dialog: There ain't no choice here.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: That's the whole point. I'm not asking
dialog: you to choose. Just want to know if
dialog: there's some space for me. Want to know
dialog: if it's more than "you can stay", "it's
dialog: fine"..more like, "I want you here Paul".
text: Beat. Sethe is frightened by the prospect of feeling for him.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Maybe we should leave things the way they
dialog: are.
text: Sethe rises to enter the house when Paul's words stop her:
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: How are they?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: We get along.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What about inside?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I don't go inside.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sethe, if I'm here with you, with Denver,
dialog: you can go anywhere you want. Jump, if
dialog: you want to, 'cause I'll catch you. Go as
dialog: far inside as you need - I'll hold your
dialog: ankles. Make sure you get back out. I'm
dialog: not saying this because I need a place to
dialog: stay. I told you, I'm a walking man, but
dialog: I been heading in this direction for
dialog: seven years. When I got here and sat out
dialog: there on the porch, waiting for you,
dialog: well, I knew it wasn't the place I was
dialog: heading toward. It was you. We can make a
dialog: life girl. A life.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (scared)
dialog: I don't know. I don't know.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Leave it to me. See how it goes. No
dialog: promises, if you don't want to make any.
dialog: Just see how it goes, all right?
text: Sethe's heart is twisted. She wants to cry...because she
text: feels hope...and because she feels fear.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: All right. We'll see how it goes.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You willing to leave it to me?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Well..some of it.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Some?...Well okay...some.
text: Sethe manages a smile.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.
text: Denver lies curled up in her bed. Alone.
text: Sethe enters and crawls in unexpectedly. Denver looks up,
text: surprised to see her.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: What is it? What's wrong?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Nothing. Nothing's wrong. Lay back down.
text: Denver obeys, unsure.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You think baby ghost's really gone?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't know.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I miss her.
text: Sethe lets out a small laugh.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I do. Baby Suggs told me baby ghost would
dialog: never hurt me. She was my sister. When I
dialog: was little, after the boys left, I used
dialog: to think that she and me both were
dialog: waiting for daddy to come. And once he
dialog: did, she wouldn't be mad no more.
dialog: (Sethe listens sadly)
text: They hear Paul singing out on the porch. Denver grimaces.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Wish he'd shut-up...He's ruined
dialog: everything.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No, he hasn't. He won't.
dialog: (hesitates)
dialog: He..he wants to takes us to the
dialog: carnival next Thursday...
text: Denver's eyes light up with excitement then caution.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You mean, go out where they'll be other
dialog: people?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Dress up a little bit. Wear our hats.
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: (downplaying her excitement)
dialog: Maybe....
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Maybe...All right...all right.
dialog: (difficult for her to say)
dialog: Can I ask you something?
text: (Denver nods, her back to
dialog: Sethe)
dialog: I was wondrin'..What you think about
dialog: us...maybe... maybe thinking we could
dialog: start...if we got an idea to, thinking we
dialog: could start.. countin' on...
dialog: (she stops)
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: On what mama? Countin' on what?
text: Sethe can barely bring herself to say. To hope. To imagine.
text: Paul? But, for Denver, she forces herself and whispers;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Something.
scene_heading: EXT. CARNIVAL - DAY.
text: Paul and Sethe and Denver walk among the hundreds of black
dialog: townspeople gathered for the carnival.
text: A sign reads COLORED THURSDAY...TWO PENNIES ENTRANCE FEE.
text: Paul is in high spirits. Saying hello to anyone whose eye he
text: catches. Willing, eager to get anything for Denver she wants.
text: Feeling a little more like a normal van in a normal life.
text: Denver is excited but worried. She doesn't want to like Paul
dialog: but can't help the thrill she's feeling. And when one or two
text: passersby shout out;
scene_heading: VARIOUS PASSERS-
speaker_heading: BY
dialog: Hey Denver!...Hi there Denver!
text: Denver heart almost weeps with joy.
text: Sethe walks cautiously. Overdressed for the occasion, it is
dialog: her first outing among neighborhood folk in many years.
text: She catches the eyes of some of the women she knows...ELLA
text: and LADY JONES..good Christian women who nod in their
dialog: acknowledgement yet are holding back something. A judgement?
dialog: A repulsion?
text: Paul doesn't notice them and for this Sethe is glad.
text: MONTAGE of SCENES...the various carnival acts, all performed
text: by a WHITE TROUPE; magic, clowning, fire swallowing, spitting
text: ribbons, acrobats forming pyramids...
text: Our trio take it all in like water to the thirsty.
text: At one point, A WHITE CARNIVAL BARKER shouts to the children;
speaker_heading: CARNIVAL BARKER
dialog: All Pickaninnies free!!
text: The phrase stabs Sethe and Paul a bit. But Paul whispers;
speaker_heading: PAUL
text: Two pennies and an insult well spent in
dialog: my opinion to see the spectacle of
text: whitefolks making a spectacle of
dialog: themselves.
text: Sethe can't help but let out a small laugh - and with that
text: laugh, a sudden sensation of relief...
text: Paul buys Denver some licorice, peppermint and lemonade.
text: Holding the lemonade for her, Paul asks;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Mind if I take a sip?
text: Denver agrees. Paul takes some lemonade then wipes the rim
text: where he sipped with a small napkin and gently hands it back
text: to her. Denver, in spite of herself, is starting to like him.
scene_heading: END MONTAGE.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY.
text: Our trio are leaving the carnival, walking three astride with
text: distance in between each. The sunlight casts strong shadows.
text: Sethe's eyes glance towards the ground behind them and sees;
text: THEIR THREE SHADOWS ARE HOLDING HANDS.....as they walk home.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT;
speaker_heading: FADE- IN.
scene_heading: EXT. A STREAM AND THE BANK BESIDE IT - DAY.
text: WIDE ANGLE of a BEAUTIFUL, WIDE STREAM (more like a small
text: river) with a MULBERRY TREE standing tall on the bank before
text: it. There is not a soul in sight as the stream moves
text: gracefully beneath the sun.
speaker_heading: SUDDENLY;
text: A FULLY DRESSED YOUNG BLACK WOMAN EMERGES FROM THE MIDDLE OF
text: THE STREAM LIKE A GODDESS ARISING OUT OF SPIRITUAL WATERS...
text: SHE WEARS A STRAW HATT A WHITE DRESS WITH BUTTONS, A LACE
text: COLLAR AND NEW SHOES. SHE WALKS OUT OF THE WATER TO THE BANK.
text: Exhausted, sopping wet and breathing heavily as if from
text: asthma, she sits, leaning against the mulberry tree. She
text: seems too tired to even hold her head upon her neck. Yet her
text: skin is like new lineless and smooth. Glowing.
text: Although racked with pain, SHE IS SMILING. Smiling the way
text: travellers smile when they have finally arrived after a long
dialog: and arduous journey.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - DAY.
text: The Young Black Woman makes her way through the woods. She
text: passes by Denver's BOXWOOD BUSH secret place. Then continues
text: forward, as if with a specific direction in mind.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - LATE AFTERNOON.
text: Sethe, Paul and Denver approach 124. Denver is the first to
dialog: see.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Look. What is that?
dialog: All three look to see;
text: THE YOUNG BLACK WOMAN sitting on a stump not far from the
dialog: steps of 124.
text: As the three approach, the Young Woman lifts her head and
text: stares directly at Sethe.
text: The two women exchange a moment in their eyes - Sethe,
text: curious yet warm...The Young Woman, happy yet there is a
text: hunger in her stare.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER.
text: The Young Woman seated on a chair as Denver refills a tin cup
text: of water. The Young Woman drinks greedily, cup after cup.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You from around here?
text: The Young Woman shakes her head NO. She reaches down and
text: takes off her shoes, which Sethe notices as new. Sethe bends
text: down to pick them up. The Young Woman never lets her eyes
dialog: leave Sethe.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Those shoes look brand new.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What might your name be?
text: The Young Woman speaks in a low, rough voice;
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Beloved.
text: Sethe drops the shoes. Denver sits down. Paul smiles;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Beloved. You use a last name, Beloved?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Last. No..just Beloved..
dialog: (she spells it)
scene_heading: B..E..L..O..V..E..D...
text: As she spells it we see sethe's reaction; she is deeply
text: touched. Then Denver's - who looks both amazed and curiously
dialog: excited.
text: Sethe hangs her own hat on a peg then approaches Beloved.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: That's a pretty name Beloved. Take off
dialog: your hat and I'll make us something. We
dialog: just got back from the carnival over near
dialog: Cincinnati-
text: But Beloved has fallen asleep upright in the chair.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Miss...Miss, you want to lay down?
text: Her eyes open to slits. Paul is about to help her when Denver
dialog: rises;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I'll take her up. She can sleep in baby
dialog: Suggs room - that all right Mama?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Course.
text: Denver eases Beloved onto her feet, which Sethe and Paul
dialog: notice do not have a line or sore on them.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (whispers to Sethe)
dialog: Look at her feet? They're not walking
text: feet. More like she rode from somewhere
dialog: all the way here.
text: Yet, Beloved can barely stand upon them as Denver escorts her
text: to the white staircase. Beloved starts coughing.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sounds like the croup.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Is she feverish, Denver?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No. She's cold.
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: Then she is. Fever goes from hot to cold.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Could have the cholera.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: (adamant)
dialog: She's not sick!
text: Denver helps her up the stairs. Sethe and Paul register
dialog: Denver's defensive reaction.
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGG'S ROOM - SAME TIME.
text: Denver eases Beloved into the bed. Beloved falls asleep the
text: second she hits the pillow. Denver gently - cautiously -
text: strokes Beloved's forehead and cheek.
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGG'S ROOM - NIGHT.
text: Denver stands vigil beside Beloved, wrapped beneath a quilt.
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGG'S ROOM - THE FOLLOWING DAY.
text: Denver watches her sleep, wiping her hot forehead with cold
dialog: cloths...
scene_heading: INT. BABY'S SUGG'S ROOM - NIGHT.
text: Denver washes out Beloved's underwear and stockings...She
text: hears Beloved murmuring. She moves quickly to her side.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Beloved? Beloved I'm here...what is it?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Heavy..this place is heavy.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Would you like to sit up?
text: Beloved shakes her head no. She takes hold of Denver's arm
text: and wraps it around her own body. Denver sits up against the
text: pillow as Beloved snuggles her body into Denver's arms and
text: falls back asleep. Denver holds her, lovingly.
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGGS ROOM - DAYS LATER.
text: Denver has not left her bedside. She places another quilt
text: upon her, tucking it in around the sides. As she does this,
text: Beloved's eyes open for a brief moment, catching the sight of
text: Denver over her. She smiles. Denver gratefully smiles back.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Can I get you anything? Are you hungry?
text: Beloved looks over to a plate of half finished food -
text: Denver's meal. Denver picks up a piece of sweet bread and
text: feeds her. Denver is thrilled.
text: THE FOLLOWING SCENES TAKE PLACE OVER SEVERAL WEEKS;
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - THE NEXT DAY.
text: Denver places sugar between two pieces of bread and gives the
text: sandwich to Beloved, who, no longer feeling sickly, accepts
text: it with a bright smile.
scene_heading: EXT. HEN HOUSE - ANOTHER DAY.
text: Denver explains how to pack mud in the cracks of the hen
text: house as Beloved listens attentively, eating jelly out of a
dialog: jar.
scene_heading: INT. HEN HOUSE - ANOTHER DAY.
text: Denver explains to Beloved how to warm the chicks with their
text: skirts as the latter eats something sweet. They both giggle
text: at the softness of the chicks.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER &amp; BELOVED'S BEDROOM - ANOTHER DAY.
text: Denver is showing Beloved how to make her bed.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: ..then you fold it over like this see.
dialog: This here used to be where my brothers
dialog: and me slept. I was always at the top.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: How you get so smart?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I ain't so smart.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Yes you are!
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Well, I used to go to Lady Jones. She'd
dialog: teach us with songs how to spell and
dialog: count.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You don't go no more?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No I...I had to stop going.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You so smart. Tell me about your
dialog: brothers.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Well..they're names were Howard and..
text: As Denver continues, Beloved steps towards her and begins to
text: touch her face - examining her lips, her nose, her skin as if
text: it were a rose to admire. Denver drinks in the attention, her
dialog: heart expanding with love with every touch from this strange
dialog: creature.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: ..and....and Bulgar...At night, we used
dialog: to..crawl into bed together..I'd lay down
dialog: on Bul's lap and Howard would tell us die-
dialog: witch stories. He said they would protect
dialog: us...And if I learned them, they would
dialog: protect me if ever they were gone...
scene_heading: EXT. PORCH - EARLY EVENING.
text: Everyone is sitting on the porch after dinner.
text: Beloved, looking strong and fit, eats a cane stick - gnawing
text: at it to the flax, keeping the strings in her mouth long
text: after the syrup had been sucked off. It makes Denver laugh,
text: as she licks her cane stick. It makes Sethe smile, to see
text: them both happy.
text: It makes Paul disgusted.
scene_heading: INT. KEEPING ROOM - NIGHT.
text: Paul confronts Sethe as she sews.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You gonna just feed her, from now on?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Denver likes her. She's no real trouble.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: But don't she have a home? Some place to
dialog: go?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Didn't mention one. I thought we'd wait
text: until her breathing got better. She still
text: sounds a little lumbar.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: She breathe like she can eat, she could
dialog: blow this whole house down. And all those
dialog: sweets.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Sometimes the body needs that sugar for
dialog: strength when it's trying to recover
dialog: after an illness.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: But that's just it. She don't seem sick.
dialog: Something funny about her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Funny? How?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Acts sick, sounds sick but she don't look
text: sick. Good skin, bright hands and strong
dialog: as a bull.
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: She can hardly walk without holding onto
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: That's what I mean. Can't walk but I
dialog: passed by Baby Sugg's room this morning
text: and saw her lifting the rocker with one
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You didn't?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Don't tell me. Ask Denver. She was right
dialog: there.
text: At that moment, Denver passes by on her way to the kitchen.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Denver. Come in here a minute.
text: Denver enters the keeping room.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Paul says you saw Beloved pick up the
text: rocking chair in Baby Suggs room with one
dialog: hand. That so?
text: Denver looks at Paul with a hard gaze;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I didn't see no such thing.
text: From Paul's expression we can tell Denver is lying...and
dialog: whatever fragile connection they were building, is swiftly
dialog: destroyed.
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.
text: Sethe is getting ready for bed. Denver sticks her head in:
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Have you seen her? I can't find her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Beloved.
text: Sethe shakes her head. Denver exits anxiously. The mentions
text: of Beloved's name stir a MEMORY in Sethe:
speaker_heading: MEMORY:
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVESTONE YARD - A DAY REMEMBERED.
text: Sethe talks to the HEADSTONE ENGRAVER as he works in the hot
text: sun. His YOUNG SON helps him.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: She need a marker. Somethin' to tell me
dialog: where she is. But I ain't got no money.
text: The Engraver eyes her body.
speaker_heading: ENGRAVER
dialog: What you got then?
text: Sethe is embarrassed by his lascivious tone, especially in
text: front of the young boy.
text: The Engraver rises, takes a step toward Sethe and touches her
text: hip, curling his hand around to her back.
speaker_heading: ENGRAVER
dialog: What you want it to say?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I was thinking what the preacher say at
dialog: the funeral. Dearly Beloved.
speaker_heading: ENGRAVER
dialog: (touching her)
dialog: For ten minutes I give you one word for
dialog: free.
text: His hand glides down to her buttocks. Sethe can't help but
text: see the Young Boy watching the scene.
text: END of MEMORY.
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.
text: As the memory starts to fade form her mind, Sethe suddenly
text: feels someone else's presence. She looks up to find:
text: Beloved standing by the door - watching her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Oh!...I didn't know you were there.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Can I help?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Help what, honey?
text: Beloved kneels before her on the floor and finishes buttoning
text: up Sethe's night dress.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Where you go in the morning?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Work. I work in a restaurant.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: What time you go?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Little after the sun come up. I like to
dialog: make a loaf of bread before I go. How you
dialog: feelin'?
text: Beloved nods, absorbing the information.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You remember your mother at all?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: (scratching back of her head)
dialog: I remember a woman who was mine and I
dialog: remember bein snatched away from her.
text: Sethe, nods, understanding such things. She cautiously
text: reaches out to stroke Beloved's face. Beloved responds like a
text: puppy, pressing her cheek against Sethe's hand. Sethe is
dialog: moved.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - PRE DAWN.
text: Sethe enters the kitchen to make bread before she leaves for
text: work. She finds Beloved waiting for her, placing out her
text: cooking things on the table. Beloved looks up and smiles.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I'm helpin make your bread.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE - EARLY EVENING.
text: Beloved waits anxiously at the window for the sight of Sethe
dialog: coming home from work....
text: When she sees her, she runs through the house, out the door
dialog: to meet her.
text: Denver appears at the door, upset by Beloved's loss of
text: attention in her.
scene_heading: EXT. PORCH - EVENING.
text: C.U. - SETHE, as she leans her tired head against the porch,
text: sitting on the step. She closes her eyes and is about to
dialog: drift off, when;
text: BELOVED'S HAND gently touches her shoulder, settling there.
text: Sethe looks up and smiles, patting her hand. Beloved stands
text: above her as Denver takes a seat on the step.
text: Beloved searches Sethe's eyes and asks;
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Where your diamonds?
text: The question surprises Sethe...and startles Denver.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Diamonds? What would I be doing with diamonds?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: On your ears.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Wish I did.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hmm..come to think of it, I had some
dialog: crystal once. A present from Mrs. Garner -
dialog: woman I worked for at Sweet Home.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I never saw you with no earrings.
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: Gone. Long gone.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Tell me...Tell me about your diamonds...
text: Sethe hesitates. Beloved kneels at her feet.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: (to Beloved)
dialog: Ma'am don't talk about Sweet Home.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: (ignoring her)
dialog: Tell me...Tell me about your diamonds.
text: Denver awaits her mother's reaction with great interest.
text: Sethe looks at Beloved sweet, innocent expression and
text: something in her resistance, eases:
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Well..this lady I worked for in Kentucky
dialog: gave them to me when I got married..
text: Denver is both interested and slightly hurt at her mother's
dialog: willingness to tell Beloved what she'd never tell her:
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: ..What they called married back then. I
dialog: remember going up to her in the kitchen
dialog: to tell her. I'd help her make ink for
dialog: Mr. Garner in the kitchen. I was fool
dialog: enough to think I was going have some
dialog: kind of ceremony...maybe even a new
dialog: dress..
scene_heading: (CONTINUES AS WE CUT TO;)
text: Sethe's continues telling Beloved, an attentive audience...
text: Denver, more attuned to Beloved's interest than the story, is
text: disturbed at her mother's telling of it.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - ANOTHER EVENING.
text: Camera moves up from the mended legs of the table Paul broke
dialog: to;
text: A suspicious Paul glares at Beloved as they eat dinner.
text: Beloved is ever ready to pass Sethe a bowl or napkin or
dialog: whatever she needs. She is "shining" - for Sethe, and for
dialog: Sethe alone.
text: Denver notices it as well.
text: It is raining outside. Both Denver and Beloved are wet from
text: the rain. Denver's hair is all tangled.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Best unbraid that hair.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Tomorrow.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Today's always here. Tomorrow never.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: It hurts.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Comb it everyday, it won't..
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Your woman never fixed up your hair?
text: All three look to Beloved, puzzled by her question, which is
text: clearly intended for Sethe. Paul's getting more annoyed.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: My woman?..You mean my mother?
text: Beloved nods. Paul and Denver exchange a curious look.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: If she did I don't remember. I don't
dialog: think I saw her but a few times.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Tell me 'bout her.
text: Paul and Denver look to Sethe, waiting to see if she'll answer.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: ..I remember once, she picked me up and
dialog: carried me behind the smokehouse... The
dialog: only thing I do remember in fact...
text: Paul is disturbed by Sethe's carefree storytelling - how it
text: contradicts her words to him that first day and worried it
dialog: will lead to no good...
text: Once again, Denver is surprised to hear what she's never
text: heard before. She looks to Paul and knows what he is
text: thinking. Paul looks back and knows Denver realizes it. But
text: Denver returns his glance with a defensive dismissal of the
dialog: eyes.
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: ...She opened up her dress and right on
dialog: her rib, right here, was a circle and a
dialog: cross burnt right into the skin....
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (interrupts her)
dialog: Sethe.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What?
text: Paul doesn't want her to continue but doesn't want to say so.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Any more beans?
text: Sethe rises to get him more food and she continues:
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: ...anyway, she points to this mark and
dialog: says to me "This is your ma'am. I am the
dialog: only one whose got this mark now. The
dialog: rest all dead. If something happens to me
dialog: and you can't tell me by my face, you can
dialog: know me by this mark"..Scared me so...
dialog: I couldn't think of anything to say so I
dialog: said "Yes Ma'am..but how will you know
dialog: us? Mark me too. Mark the mark on me
dialog: too."
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Did she?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No. She slapped my face. I didn't
dialog: understand it then. Not until I had a
dialog: mark of my own...
text: Paul is disturbed. He can see Sethe getting upset. He is mad
dialog: at Beloved for her damn questions..
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: What happened to her?
text: Something inside of Sethe stops, a wall erected. Something
text: unwanted is coming into her consciousness. Paul notices it.
dialog: She rises;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't know. Everybody done?
text: Sethe collects a few dishes and crosses to the sink as Paul asks:
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Well, as long as we're all asking
text: questions, getting to know each other..
dialog: (to Beloved)
dialog: Why don't you tell us a little bit about
dialog: yourself?
text: Camera follows Sethe as she arrives at the sink, placing the
text: dish inside. We hear the others O.S.:
speaker_heading: DENVER (O.S.)
dialog: (defensively)
dialog: She don't remember nothing.
speaker_heading: PAUL (O.S.)
dialog: You be surprised what you start
dialog: remembering once you start talking.
speaker_heading: BELOVED (O.S.)
dialog: Can I have some more pudding?
text: Camera stays on Sethe as we drown out the voices at the
text: kitchen table. She is staring out the window above the sink
text: as if watching the MEMORY BEING RELIVED IN HER YARD;
scene_heading: POV - OUT THE WINDOW;
speaker_heading: MEMORY:
scene_heading: EXT. A LARGE TREE IN A FIELD - A DAY REMEMBERED.
text: A CROWD of people surround a tree. SEVERAL WHITE MEN are
text: preparing to hang a group of black men and women standing in
text: line, awaiting their turn.
text: Among the crowd is A CHILD (SETHE) holding the hand of an
text: OLDER BLACK SLAVE WOMAN (NAN). Nan is pointing to a WOMAN
text: (SETHE'S MOTHER), who is one of the people waiting in line to
text: be hanged. Nan whispers to Sethe:
speaker_heading: NAN
dialog: That's your mama - right there.
text: Little Sethe looks up and sees her mother - her face a mask
text: of courage and rage and tears. She looks straight ahead - not
dialog: at anyone in particular, especially not her daughter.
speaker_heading: NAN
dialog: ..I'm telling you, small girl Sethe...Me
dialog: and your Mama was taken by the men many
dialog: times..She threw them other babies
dialog: away..the others from the whites, without
dialog: names, she threw them away..But you she
dialog: gave the name of the black man. She had
text: her arms around him, child. The others,
text: she did not put her arms around.
dialog: Never...Never...
text: The child Sethe listens, watching her mother move further
text: down the line.
text: END of MEMORY as WE CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -
text: Sethe, the memory passing, hears the voices in her kitchen:
speaker_heading: PAUL (O.S.)
dialog: Ain't you got no brothers or sisters?
speaker_heading: BELOVED (O.S.)
dialog: I don't have nobody.
text: She finds Paul interrogating Beloved who eats a second
text: pudding. Denver tries to interfere.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: She has us now!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You been here five weeks, we still don't
dialog: know nothing bout you..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Paul, Stop it. Denver bring those dishes.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What was you looking for when you came here?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: This place. I was looking for this place
dialog: I could be in.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Somebody tell you about this place?
text: At the sink, both Sethe and Denver pause, obviously interested.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: She told me. When I was at the bridge,
dialog: she told me.
text: Paul looks quizzically at Sethe, who shrugs;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Must be somebody from the old days.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: How'd you come? Who brought you?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I walked here. A long, long, long, long
dialog: way. Nobody bring me.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You had new shoes. If you walked so long
dialog: why don't your shoes show it?
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: Paul D. stop picking on her.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I want to know! Where'd you get them
dialog: shoes and that dress you had on?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I take the shoes! (coughs) I take the
dialog: dress! (coughs) The shoe strings don't
dialog: fit! I...
text: Suddenly, she begins to CHOKE on a raisin from the pudding
text: and falls backward, off the chair.
text: Denver and Sethe rush towards her. Beloved thrashes around
text: until they help her turn over and spit up the raisin.
text: She breathes in Sethe's arms as Denver wipes up the mess,
text: glaring at Paul.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You all right?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: I want to go to sleep now.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Come to my room. I can watch out for you
dialog: up there.
text: Sethe gets Beloved to her feet. Denver takes her up the
text: staircase to her room - glaring at Paul.
text: When the girls have gone, Sethe turns on Paul as she cleans
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What's the matter with you?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I don't understand what the hold is. It's
dialog: clear why she holds onto you, but I just
dialog: can't see why you holding on to her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What you care who's holding on to who?
dialog: Feeding her is no trouble. And she's nice
dialog: company for Denver.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: We was just starting to feel a little
dialog: like a family ourselves.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Is that what's got your teeth on edge?
speaker_heading: PAUL
text: I can't place it. It's a feeling in me.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You wanna feel somethin!? ... Feel how it
dialog: is to have a bed to sleep in and somebody
dialog: there not worrying you to death about
dialog: what you got to do each day to deserve
dialog: it. And if that don't get it, feel how it
text: feels to be a colored woman roaming the
dialog: roads with anything God made liable to
dialog: jump on you. Feel that!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I know every bit of that, Sethe. I wasn't
dialog: born yesterday and I never mistreated a
dialog: woman in my life!
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Well, that makes one of you in this
dialog: world.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: One? Not two.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No. Not two!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What Halle ever do to you? Halle stood by
dialog: you. He never left you.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Ha, what'd he leave then if not me, huh?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I don't know but it wasn't you. That's a
dialog: fact.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Then he did worse - he left his children.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You don't know that.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: HE WASN'T THERE! He wasn't where he said
dialog: he would be! I had to pack my babies off
dialog: ahead of me, on their own, so I could
dialog: stay behind to look for him...Underground
dialog: agent said by Sunday we had to leave..
dialog: Sunday came and he wasn't there.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: He couldn't get out of the loft, I expect.
text: Forgetting himself, Paul let that slip out.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Loft? What loft?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (hesitates)
dialog: The one over your head... The one in the
dialog: barn.
text: Sethe stops dead cold. It's no use...
scene_heading: The MEMORY TAKES OVER:
scene_heading: INT. BARN - THE PAST.
text: Violent, rapid images of Sethe being raped and beaten held
text: down by SCHOOLTEACHER'S BOYS. Sethe, pinned down, stares up
text: at the loft...Camera rises up...
text: There, in the loft, hides HALLE...The expression on his face
text: is that of a man broken in two...
text: END of MEMORY.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT.
text: Sethe wraps her arms tightly around herself and asks;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: He saw? He told you he saw?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You told me. The day I came here. You
dialog: said they stole your milk. I never knew
dialog: what messed Halle up. That was it, I
dialog: guess. I seen him the day after you left.
dialog: Says where you been Halle? All he says to
dialog: me was "the loft". I asked him what he
dialog: meant not going with you but he never
dialog: answers me. But I knew was something
dialog: broke him. Not one of them years of
dialog: Saturdays, Sundays and nighttime extra
dialog: never touched him. But whatever he saw go
text: on in the barn that day broke him like a
text: twig.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: He saw them boys do that to me and let
dialog: them keep on breathing?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: A man ain't a Goddamn ax, Sethe.
dialog: Chopping, hacking, busting every Goddamn
text: minute of the day. Things get to him.
dialog: Things he can't chop down cause they
dialog: inside him. The last time I saw him, I
dialog: knew he was broken for good...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What did he say?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What did you say? Didn't you say anything
dialog: to him?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I couldn't.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Couldn't?! Why the hell not?!
text: C.U. on PAUL who doesn't want to explain - or even remember -
dialog: as we cut to:
speaker_heading: MEMORY:
scene_heading: EXT. SWEET HOME - DAY.
text: PAUL HAS A BIT IN HIS MOUTH CHAINED TO A WAGON.
text: He is being lead away from Sweet Home with other black men,
text: by Three white Men. The bit jerks his head back, saliva
text: spills uncontrollably out of his mouth. His hands are chained
text: behind him. His feet chained together at the
text: ankles....Another chain is connected to an iron belt and
text: stretches to a wagon. He is being lead away with forty five
dialog: other prisoners...
speaker_heading: PAUL (VO)
dialog: I tried to kill Brandywine - man
dialog: Schoolteacher sold me to. Don't know what
dialog: possessed me...Me and about 45 other
dialog: prisoners were being walked from Kentucky
dialog: to Virginia...then on to Georgia. Two
dialog: places I don't ever want to see again.
text: He is lead past the milk shed, when he sees:
text: HALLE, alone with a crazed faraway look in his eyes, sitting
text: by the butter churn. HALLE'S FACE IS COVERED WITH BUTTER AND
text: CLABBER. He sticks his hands in the churn and continues to
text: cover his face with the sticky, slippery, white substance
text: covering his face and head, squeezing it through his hands.
text: The White Men laugh. Paul is aching to scream out to him but
text: the iron bit holds down his tongue.
text: As Paul is lead past Halle, A ROOSTER named MISTER is SITTING
text: ON A TUB in the sun shrieks with an almost arrogant glee.
speaker_heading: WHITE MAN
dialog: Look at Mister there...
dialog: (referring to the rooster)
dialog: You go tell these niggers where to go
dialog: there Mister! Crow'em right outta here!
text: Mister crows and the white men laugh.
text: Tears of rage and humiliation stream down Paul's face. He
text: struggles to keep a view of Halle, until he is out of sight.
scene_heading: END OF MEMORY.
scene_heading: EXT. PORCH. - EARLY EVENING.
text: Paul approaches Sethe, touching her gently.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I didn't mean to tell you that.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I didn't plan on hearing it.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I can't take it back but I can leave it
dialog: alone.
text: Sethe, instead of collapsing from the information, she seems
dialog: hardened.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Let's do that..let's leave it alone now.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (more to herself)
dialog: Let it alone. Just sit down and leave it
dialog: be! Yeah that would be nice. Would be
dialog: even nicer to lose it altogether - if I
dialog: had my choice. Halle did. Other people's
dialog: brains stopped, went crazy. How sweet
dialog: that would have been. Me and Halle
text: squatting by that churn, smashing cold
text: lumpy butter in our faces, not a care in
dialog: the world..
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sethe, don't do this..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What a relief to just stop it all right
dialog: there, huh?!! Close it shut! Squeeze that
dialog: butter...But I had three children on
dialog: their way to Ohio and nothing would have
dialog: changed that! And you tell me he didn't
dialog: leave me!!
text: Sethe exits O.S. Paul is left alone on the porch until
text: Beloved runs out of the house giggling with Denver in
text: pursuit. As Denver passes, Paul sarcastically remarks;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Guess she's feeling better, huh?
text: Denver gives him a quick, disdainful look, then continues
dialog: after Beloved.
text: The two girls run towards the woods.
scene_heading: EXT. BOXWOOD BUSH ROOM - NIGHT.
text: Beloved is dancing beneath a bright moon. Denver is an
text: attentive, grateful audience.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Where'd you learn to dance?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Nowhere. Look at me do this!
text: She puts her fists on her hips and skips.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Now you! Come on! Come on!
text: She takes Denver's hand and places another on her shoulder.
text: As they dance, Denver laughs harder and harder - a giddiness
text: from the dizziness and the gratitude she feels for Beloved's
dialog: attention.
text: They spin and fall to the ground, like two lovers nestled.
text: Beloved catches her breath as Denver asks;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Why you call yourself Beloved?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: In the dark my name is Beloved.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: What's it like where you were before?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: (a thoughtful expression)
dialog: Dark. I'm small in that place. I'm like
dialog: this here.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Were you cold?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Hot. Nothing to breathe there. No room to
dialog: move.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: How did you get here?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I wait; then I got on the bridge. I stay
text: there in the dark, in the daytime, in the
text: dark in the daytime. Long time.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: All this time you were on the bridge?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: No. After. When I got out.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Why'd you come here?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: To see her face.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Ma'am's? Sethe's?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Yes. Sethe.
text: And with that, Denver takes a breath of courage to ask the
dialog: question she's been longing to ask:
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You my sister, ain't you? You really are.
text: Beloved looks at her and smiles. They are so close she leans
text: in curiously and - touching Denver's face - kisses her on the
dialog: lips.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You won't leave us, will you?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: No. Never. This is where I am.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I knew it. I knew. First time I saw you
dialog: and you said your name. And when you
dialog: touched me - real gentle. And familiar.
dialog: Like I'd felt that touch before.
text: Smiling, Beloved moves to touch Denver's cheek when suddenly,
text: Denver sits up cross legged and urges Beloved;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Don't tell mama. You musn't tell her who
dialog: you really are. I don't know what she'd
dialog: do! Please, you hear?
text: Suddenly, Beloved's face turns to rage as she rises up as
dialog: well;
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Don't tell me what to do? Don't never
dialog: tell me what to do!?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: But..but I'm on your side. I want to
dialog: protect you...
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: (stands above Denver)
dialog: She's the one! She's the one I need! You
dialog: can go but she's the one I have to have!
text: Beloved abruptly drops to her knees and crawls out the
text: boxwood bush room as Denver's pleads;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No. Beloved please! Don't go! I didn't do
dialog: nothing! We were dancing! Don't go!....
scene_heading: INT. DENVER'S &amp; BELOVED'S ROOM - DAWN THE FOLLOWING DAY.
text: The room is still dark from the night but the sun is rising
dialog: outside.
text: Suddenly, Beloved awakens with a start. She senses something.
text: She rises and looks out the window to see;
speaker_heading: POV;
text: SETHE WALKING ACROSS THE FIELD.
text: Beloved quickly grabs her clothes and exits to follow her, as
text: Denver awakens just in time to see her go.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS EARLY MORNING.
text: Sethe is dressed as if for church as she makes her way through
text: the woods with a specific destination in mind.
text: Soon, she comes upon;
text: EXT. A CLEARING IN THE WOODS - EARLY MORNING.
text: Sethe steps out of the woods and into an open clearing. A
text: LARGE ROCK sits in the clearing like a pulpit above the pew's
text: of grass and weeds.
text: Sethe remembers the place as it was... She hears the VOICES
text: OF A CROWD...a gathering of people though the clearing
text: remains empty. She crosses to the rock and sits. Camera moves
dialog: up to reveal -
speaker_heading: MEMORY:
text: BABY SUGGS, vital and strong, standing on the rock,
dialog: preaching:
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: I'm not here to tell you all to clean up
dialog: your lives and sin no more....I'm not
dialog: here to tell you we're the blessed meek
dialog: and are glorybound!...I'm here to tell
dialog: you that the only grace we can have, is
dialog: the grace we can imagine...And if you
dialog: cannot see it, then you shall not have
dialog: it...
scene_heading: END OF MEMORY.
text: C.U. on SETHE as she remembers Baby Suggs words, sitting
text: alone in the clearing - the images of the past gone.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - SAME TIME.
text: Beloved has found her and watches from a hidden place...
text: Camera moves beyond her to find;
text: Denver, having followed Beloved, watches her from a distance.
text: EXT. A CLEARING IN THE WOODS - EARLY MORNING.
dialog: Sethe remembers Baby Suggs advice:
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS (V.O.)
dialog: ..God lead you home... So now, lay'em
dialog: down, child. Sword and shield..Don't
dialog: study war no more. Lay all that mess
dialog: down. Sword and shield...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Lay'em down...sword and shield.
text: Sethe weeps...She slides to the ground and holds her head to
text: weep. She covers her head from God and cries AS SHE LETS THE
text: MEMORIES COME..memories she can no longer fight from coming;
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: SETHE'S MEMORIES;
scene_heading: EXT. SWEET HOME - A NIGHT REMEMBERED.
text: SETHE IS IN THE SAME BENT OVER POSITION only here, her back
text: is exposed and she is being beaten by the Schoolteacher's
text: boys. The BOY BEATING SETHE never stops with the whip for a
dialog: second as he rants;
scene_heading: BOY BEATING SETHE
scene_heading: NIGGER TRASH..OPENING YOUR MOUTH...
speaker_heading: SECOND BOY
dialog: YOU GONNA KILL HER! YOU BETTER STOP!
scene_heading: BOY BEATING SETHE
text: I'LL KILL HER ALL RIGHT...NEVER OPEN HER
text: MOUTH 'BOUT ME AGIN....
text: They beat her mercilessly.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - NIGHT.
text: Sethe, tear stained, bloody and very pregnant fights her way
text: through a corn field as she makes her escape..
text: Her dress hangs torn at the back - her wounds open and
text: bleeding. Her feet already swollen and blistered. She is in
text: agonizing pain. She moves like a figure in a nightmare.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: A SERIES OF IMAGES IN WHICH WE SEE SETHE STRUGGLING THROUGH
text: DAYS AND NIGHTS OF WALKING AND HIDING, IN VARIOUS LOCATIONS
text: AS SHE MAKES HER WAY ACROSS THE STATE.
scene_heading: THE FINAL IMAGE IS:
scene_heading: EXT. ONION FIELD - DAY.
text: Sethe falls to the ground unable to move - her contractions
text: have started and the pain is unbearable.
text: Her breasts are leaking on her sweat stained body. Her legs
text: are scratched and bleeding from moving through broken twigs
text: and rock. On her back, the tree is starting to form.
text: She lays there waiting for death. Until a VOICE ASKS:
speaker_heading: AMY (OS)
dialog: WHO THAT BACK THERE!
text: Sethe can not answer as she hears TWO FEET moving through the
text: field. She clutches her pregnant stomach as if somehow she
text: might hide it from whoever might be coming to harm her.
text: A RAGGEDLY LOOKING WHITE GIRL with arms like cane stalks and
text: enough hair for five heads steps through into view.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Look there. A nigger. If that don't beat
dialog: all...
dialog: Sethe can not speak for fear.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Man, you 'bout the scariest looking
dialog: something I ever seen. What you doing
dialog: back up here?
text: Sethe manages to control her breath and push out the word;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Running.
text: Amy looks at Sethe's swollen, bloody flesh at the end of her
dialog: legs.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Them the feet you running on? My Jesus
dialog: my...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (semi-delerious)
dialog: Am I in Ohio?
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Ohio! Fool girl - you in Kentucky. You
dialog: 'bout a thousand miles from Ohio.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (murmurs to herself)
dialog: I'm still in Kentucky.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: You got anything on you, gal, pass for
dialog: food?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No, ma'am.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: I like to die I'm so hungry. Thought
dialog: there might be huckleberries. That's why
dialog: I come up here. You having a baby?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I expect this baby ma'am is gonna die in
dialog: these wild onions.
dialog: Amy doesn't know what to do with that information. So..
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Well, I got to eat something.
text: Any stands and looks as if she's about to leave when Sethe,
text: feeling the girl is safe, stops her with a question.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Where you on your way to, miss?
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: (eager to tell)
dialog: Boston. Get me some velvet. It's a store
dialog: called Wilson. I seen pictures and they
dialog: have the prettiest velvet.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Boston - is that far?
speaker_heading: AMY
text: Farther than Ohio.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Must be velvet closer by.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Not like in Boston. Be so pretty on me.
dialog: You ever touch velvet? Or even seen it?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: If I did, I didn't know it. What's it like?
text: Sethe desperately wants her to stay - to not be alone. Amy
text: kneels back down to her, curious now;
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: What they call you?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (lies)
dialog: Lu.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: What you gonna do, just lay there and
dialog: foal?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I can't get up.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I can't get up.
text: Amy wipes her nose and looks up beyond Sethe.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: There's a house back yonder. Well, not a
dialog: house with people in it - more like a
text: lean-to near the river.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: How far?
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Make a difference, does it? You stay
dialog: here, snake might get you.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Well, he may come but I can't stand up,
dialog: let alone walk...and God help me, I can't
dialog: crawl.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Sure you can Lu..come on..
text: Amy helps Sethe turn over onto all fours.
scene_heading: EXT. ONION FIELD - DAY...MINUTES LATER.
text: Amy walks beside Sethe as the latter painfully crawls, taking
text: moments to stop and let the pain go through her.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Come on Lu! You got to move faster than
dialog: that. You won't get to Ohio til you
dialog: ninety years old, you keep moving that
dialog: ways.
scene_heading: INT. LEAN-TO - EARLY EVENING.
text: Amy makes a pile of leaves for Sethe to lay on and some rocks
text: for her to put up her feet. She talks non-stop as she works.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Never know it to look at me but I used to
dialog: be a good size. Nice arms, everything.
dialog: That was before they put me in the root
dialog: cellar...
text: She eases Sethe onto the leaves then lifts her feet onto the
dialog: rocks.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: ...Mama worked for these people here to
dialog: pay for her passage but then she had me
dialog: and died right after so I had to work
dialog: for'em.. I was fishing off the Beaver
dialog: once and a nigger floated right by me. I
dialog: don't like drowned people, do you? Your
text: feet remind me of him. All swole like.
text: Amy props Sethe up from behind when she notices
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: You all bloody back here. Gal you a mess.
dialog: Undo your dress - let me see.
text: Sethe makes a tremendous effort just to turn to her side as
text: Amy undoes her dress;
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Lord, I ain't never seen a poorer excuse
dialog: for a-
text: Amy sees Sethe's back and, for a moment, is speechless. Then:
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Jesus...It's a tree Lu..A chokecherry
dialog: tree. I had me some whippings but I don't
dialog: remember nothing like this. Glad I ain't
dialog: you.. what God have in mind I wonder.
dialog: ...You thank your Maker I come along.
dialog: Spiderwebs all I can do for you. What's
dialog: in here ain't enough. I'll look
dialog: outside...Maybe I ought to break them
text: blossoms open and let the pus run..
dialog: (rises)
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: That you ain't dead yet Lu's a miracle.
dialog: Make you a bet..You make it through the
dialog: night, you make it all the way...
scene_heading: INT. LEAN-TO - NIGHT.
text: To Sethe's amazement, Amy begins to massage her feet and legs
text: the pain of which causes Sethe to cry.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: It's gonna hurt now..Anything dead coming
dialog: back to life hurts. Stop wiggling, girl.
dialog: (sings)
text: "WHEN THE BUSY DAY IS DONE AND MY WEARY
text: LITTLE ONE ROCKETH TO AND FRO; WHEN THE
text: NIGHT WINDS SOFTLY BLOW AND CRICKETS
scene_heading: CHIRP AGAIN; WHERE'PON THE HAUNTED GREEN
scene_heading: FAIRIES DANCE AROUND THEIR QUEEN THEN
scene_heading: FROM YONDER MISTY SKIES COMETH LADY
dialog: BUTTON EYES..."
dialog: (talks)
dialog: Don't up and die on me in the night, you
dialog: hear me Lu? I don't want to see your ugly
dialog: face hankering over me. If you do die,
dialog: just go on off somewhere where I can't
dialog: see you, hear?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I'll do what I can, miss.
text: Amy continues singing.....
scene_heading: EXT. PATH LEADING TO RIVER - DAY.
text: Sethe is trying to walk, holding on to Amy at first, then a
dialog: tree.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Cause of me, you up and walking. See,
dialog: Jesus - Lu made it through..I'm good at
dialog: sick things, ain't I?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Yeah, you good...
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: What's that all over your dress?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Milk..Got to get my milk to my baby girl.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: You got another baby waiting for you?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (stops and touches belly)
dialog: I think this one is dead.
text: Amy doesn't know what to say, so she says:
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: You hungry?
text: Sethe keeps trying to walk;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I ain't nothing but in a hurry, miss. Got
dialog: to meet someone...help bring me and my
dialog: milk to my baby girl...
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: You want shoes?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Say what?
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: I figured how...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Amy cutting two pieces form Sethe shawl then filling them
text: with leaves and tying them over her feet -
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. RIVERBANK - DAY.
text: Sethe and Amy walk towards the river when then see:
text: A SMALL, ABANDONED ROWBOAT with oars.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Jesus looking at you, girl!
text: Sethe can't believe her eyes. She walks right into the water
text: when suddenly, her own water breaks and her labor begins...
text: She doubles up in pain;
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: What you doing that for!? Ain't you got a
dialog: brain in your head? Stop that right now!
dialog: I said stop it, Lu. You the dumbest thing
dialog: on this here earth, LU!..LU!
text: Sethe, on her knees, crawls into the boat and props her feet
text: up. Water leaks in wherever it can, rising up as high as her
text: waist. Amy takes her position to assist.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Oh Jesus, I'm awful sorry 'bout the
dialog: braggin...I need you here now..Come on
dialog: Jesus...don't be getting lost on me now.
text: Sethe screams in agony as the child pushes through. Amy curses;
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Damn daddies never around 'cept for the
dialog: fun part. Biggest joke God made on woman
dialog: was giving men the planters 'stead of the
dialog: soil...!! PUSH!
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (gasping)
dialog: PULL!!
text: Amy's strong hands pull Denver's head out and up, to meet
text: Sethe's eyes. Sethe cannot believe this creature made it
text: through..Amy rinses it with water then, wrapping it in her
text: skirt, holds it up to Sethe..
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: My Lord...She's never gonna know who I
dialog: am. You gonna tell her? Who brought her
dialog: into this world. You better tell her, you
dialog: hear! You say MISS AMY DENVER. Of Boston.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: That's pretty. Denver. Real pretty.
scene_heading: EXT. BANKS OF THE OHIO RIVER - DAY.
text: Sethe awakens, mud-caked, on the banks of the river. Her baby
text: girl crying beside her. Amy is gone. She rises, painfully,
text: picks up her child and continues on her way.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: MONTAGE - MORE DAYS AND NIGHTS OF SETHE, NOW WITHOUT AMY - A
text: NEW BABY STRAPPED TO HER BODY - MAKING HER AWAY ALONG THE
text: OHIO RIVER...THROUGH HOT SUNNY DAYS AND RAINY NIGHTS WITHOUT
scene_heading: PROTECTION...SEARCHING FOR FOOD AND SHELTER...
speaker_heading: FINAL IMAGE IS:
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER BANK - OAK TREE - NIGHT.
text: A thunderstorm cracks across the sky and floods the river.
text: Sethe is sitting beneath the oak - the rain soaking her as
text: she breast feeds her baby. She cries out loud - but her sobs
text: and tears are lost in the rain and thunder.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVERBANK - LATER THAT DAY.
text: Sethe walks downriver with Denver tied to her chest. She
text: stops when she sees:
text: A FLATBED gliding down river. She can't make out if they're
text: white people or not, so she hides behind a tree until it
dialog: passes;
text: Waiting behind the tree, we see that Sethe is sweating a
text: fever. But Denver seems to be doing fine.
text: She sees the flatbed pass her and continues on her way. She
dialog: sees;
text: THREE COLORED PEOPLE - AN OLDER MAN and two boys - fishing.
text: She approaches cautiously.
text: One of the boys is the first to see her. Sethe's bloody and
text: torn clothes and her feverish face make her quite a sight to
text: the young boy. He taps the Old Man on the shoulder and
text: motions for him to turn around.
text: The Old Man takes in Sethe and instantly knows where she's
dialog: been and why she's there.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Headin cross?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Anybody know you coming?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Yes sir. My mother-in-law over in...
text: Stamp Paid raises his hand to stop her. He looks around to
text: see that no one else is in sight, then motions for her to sit
text: on a rock. As she does, he gets a water jug and hands it to
text: her - she drinks like a madman in the desert. The Boys watch
text: in fascination. Stamp Paid turns to one of them and says:
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Take off that coat?
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You heard me?
text: The Boy slips out of his jacket, complaining.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: What am I gonna wear?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You want it back...
text: He unties the baby from Sethe and wraps it in the coat.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: ..then you go head and take it off this
dialog: baby. And if you can do that, then go
dialog: 'way somewhere and don't come back.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY.
text: On a flatbed, Stamp Paid crosses the river with Sethe, her
text: baby and the two boys.
scene_heading: EXT. OPPOSITE RIVER BANK - DAY.
text: Stamp Paid helps Sethe walk up a very steep bank while the
text: Boy without a jacket, carries the baby who wears it.
scene_heading: INT. BRUSH-COVERED HUTCH - DAY.
text: Stamp Paid leads Sethe and the others into the hutch.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Wait here. Somebody be here directly.
dialog: Don't move. They'll find you.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Thank you. What's your name - so I can
dialog: remember you right.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Name's Stamp. Stamp Paid. Watch out for
dialog: that baby, you hear?
text: She nods as he and the boys exit.
speaker_heading: LAP DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: LATER - SAME LOCATION:
text: Sethe is asleep with the baby when ELLA enters the hutch;
speaker_heading: ELLLA
dialog: Saw the sign a while ago but I couldn't
dialog: get here no quicker.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What sign?
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Stamp always leave the old sty open when
text: there's a crossing. Knots a white rag on
dialog: the post if it's a child too.
dialog: (kneels)
dialog: My name's Ella..Where you headed?
text: Ella empties a sack with a wool blanket, cotton cloth, two
text: baked sweet potatoes and a pair of men's shoes.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: My mother-in-law's. Name's Baby Suggs. She
dialog: got my other three children I sent ahead.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: When was this one born?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Yesterday. I hope she makes it.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Hard to say.
dialog: (gives her men's shoes)
dialog: Let's try to get these on your feet.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - NIGHT.
text: Baby Suggs rises off the bench on the porch when she sees
text: Sethe coming up the walk. She runs to her and embraces Sethe
text: and the baby, tears in her eyes.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Oh my Lord...My sweet Lord thank you.
text: Baby Suggs welcomes Sethe into the house, kissing her hard on
text: the lips....Sethe can't believe she's in her arms.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Where's Halle?
text: Sethe looks at her with confusion and exhaustion.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: He wasn't there.
text: A flash of fear is quickly transformed into pragmatism.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Well, he be along presently, I'm sure.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Where are the children?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Not now. You too ugly looking to wake 'em
dialog: up in the night. First we get you well..
scene_heading: INT. KEEPING ROOM - NIGHT.
text: Baby Suggs bathes Sethe - first her face, her body...hands,
dialog: arms, legs...
text: When she gets to her unrecognizable feet, she touches them.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: You feel this?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Feel what?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Nothing..
text: Baby Suggs notices roses of blood on Sethe's back...She looks
text: and covers her mouth when she sees the remnants of the whipping.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Girl...
scene_heading: INT. KEEPING ROOM - LATER THAT DAY.
text: Baby Suggs with two other grown women attend to Sethe's back -
text: greasing it and pinning double thicknesses of cloth to the
text: inside of a newly stitched dress...
scene_heading: INT. KEEPING ROOM - STILL LATER THAT DAY.
text: Sethe, sitting in bed with her new dress and her wounds
text: dressed waits for her children.
text: Baby Suggs opens the door and the boys are ushered in. Sethe
text: welcomes them to her arms...They run to her, jumping on the
text: bed. The startle causes some pain but Sethe doesn't care.
text: The Little Girl (Beloved) is crawling and ushered toward her
dialog: mama.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Already crawling - ain't that somethin?
dialog: ..Come on, baby girl..right this
dialog: way..Mama's waiting..
text: Sethe picks her up and the tears flow. She can't stop kissing
text: them - their necks, their heads, their hands...The Boys
text: inspect her strange looking feet and ask;
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Pappie come?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Soon.
text: Baby Suggs seems doubtful but appreciates the lie for the
dialog: children.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: All right boys - mama's home now, you be
dialog: seeing her all the time..Go downstairs
dialog: and get your supper...Go on...
text: Sethe hugs and kisses them as if for the last time - as if
text: she still doesn't believe she can just get out of bed, walk
text: downstairs and be with them. The Boys leave as Sethe cradles
dialog: the Little Girl.
text: Sethe anxiously undoes her dress and carefully guides her
text: breast to the Little Girl. She winces with pain and smiles -
dialog: she got her milk to her baby girl.
text: Baby Suggs gathers the rags Sethe wore when she first arrived.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Nothing worth saving here.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Oh wait..Look and see if there's
text: something knotted up in the petticoat.
dialog: Wedding present. From Mrs. Garner.
text: Baby Suggs finds TWO CRYSTAL EARRINGS.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Be nice if there was a groom to go with
dialog: it. What do you think happened to him?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I don't know. He wasn't where he said to
dialog: meet him at. I had to get out. I had to.
dialog: He'll make it. if I made it, Halle sure
dialog: can.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: (skeptical)
dialog: Well put these on - maybe they'll light
dialog: his way.
text: As Sethe takes the earrings, the Little Baby Girl reaches for
dialog: them.
text: Through her eyes, we see them sparkle and shine - like
dialog: diamonds.
text: Baby Suggs hands gently massage Sethe's neck as she says;
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Whatever happens now...God lead you home.
dialog: So now lay'em down Sethe...Sword and
dialog: shield..Don't study war no more. Lay all
dialog: that mess down. Sword and shield...
text: Sethe surrenders herself to Baby Suggs firm, safe hands -
text: letting go of the "diamonds", one of which lands in the hands
text: of the Little Girl...who plays with them in fascination...
scene_heading: END OF MEMORY.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: PRESENT DAY;
scene_heading: EXT. A CLEARING IN THE WOODS - DAY
text: Sethe is remembering these last images, she eases her own
text: hand up to her neck - rubbing herself the way Baby Suggs did.
text: She realizes how much she misses her...and wonder who can
dialog: touch her now and help her "lay it all down". And then, quite
dialog: suddenly;
text: AN IMAGE FLASHES ACROSS HER MIND;
scene_heading: - PAUL GENTLY EASING HIS HANDS AROUND SETHE FROM
scene_heading: BEHIND...TENDERLY KISSING SETHE'S BACK
text: Paul...There is Paul. Sethe realizes, as IMAGES FLASH ACROSS
scene_heading: HER MIND'S EYE:
text: - PAUL SITTING ON THE PORCH THE FIRST DAY HE ARRIVED.
text: - PAUL BATTLING THE BABY GHOST.
text: - PAUL SINGING AS HE FIXES THE KITCHEN TABLE.
text: - SETHE WRAPPED IN PAUL'S BIG ARMS AS THEY LAY IN BED.
text: Sethe rises from the ground, as if with a new realization.
text: She begins to walk out of the clearing and into the woods,
text: her pace increasing with each image....
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - DAY.
text: Sethe walks through the woods, passing Beloved unawares - who
text: has fallen asleep by a tree. Beloved is awakened as Sethe
text: walks by, and gets to her feet to follow.
text: Further on, Sethe passes a sleeping Denver, who also awakens
text: upon hearing the footsteps of her mother, followed by
text: Beloved. Sethe walks on, unaware of them following her.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD OF 124 BLUESTONE - DAY.
text: Wide angle of Sethe walking well ahead of Beloved and Denver.
text: Sethe is walking with great purpose and energy.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - DAY.
text: Sethe enters and runs through the house to the kitchen;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Paul? Paul, you home?...
text: Paul sits in a tub under the white staircase. He smiles.
text: Sethe is relieved...grateful to find him there, for her.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Where else would I be on a Sunday off?
text: Sethe smiles, almost in tears.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Why don't you come on in here?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Paul D. What if the girls came in?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I don't hear nobody.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I have to cook.
text: Paul D. stands up in the tub and holds Sethe against his wet,
text: naked body.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What you gonna cook?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (loving his body and his
dialog: attention)
dialog: I thought I'd make some snap beans.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Oh yeah.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Fry up a little corn?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Yeah.
text: He kisses her - and that's exactly what she wanted.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Oh Paul...
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I'm right here baby.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Thank you Lord.
text: Camera slowly moves out of the kitchen as Sethe and Paul
text: begin to make love, revealing;
text: Beloved watching from the doorway, unknown to Sethe or Paul.
text: She is disgusted, envious...and runs out..
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - DAY.
text: Beloved runs out of the house and heads back for the woods.
text: She passes Denver as if she weren't there.
scene_heading: EXT. STREAM IN THE WOODS - DAY.
text: Beloved reaches the stream and steps in. She begins to
text: violently hit the water around her, then begins hitting her
text: own face and head, clawing at it as if to escape from the
text: boundaries of flesh. Suddenly she submerges herself
text: underwater and holds herself there, as if to drown herself...
text: She bursts out of the water, gasping for air...Slowly, her
text: rage subsides, replaced with a calm, ruthless understanding
scene_heading: EXT. THE FIELD OF 124 BLUESTONE RD.- DAY.
text: Beloved is walking back toward the house. She stops.
text: She looks back at the house to the kitchen window - knowing
text: Paul and Sethe are in there. She approaches the kitchen
text: window and looks in.
text: POV - Sethe is drying off Paul's body and rebuttoning her
dialog: dress.
text: Camera moves slowly into a C.U. of Beloved, this time her
text: focus is on Paul.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - EVENING.
text: The inhabitants eat dinner in silence.
text: Denver awaits a look from Beloved. As Beloved passes her a
text: bowl of peas with a smile, Denver is satisfied.
text: Beloved then turns to Paul, offering him the bowl.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You have brothers or sisters?
text: Caught off guard, Paul looks to Sethe - whose expression asks
dialog: him to be nice.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: We don't talk about that.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Sethe told us you been walking for
dialog: eighteen years. Where you been all that
dialog: time?
text: Paul is about to get mad when he looks to Sethe again, reels
text: it back in and answers curtly, but politely;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Lots of places. I don't remember them
dialog: all. Don't remember much about anything.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You be surprised what you start
dialog: remembering once you start talking.
text: Hearing his own words echoed back to him, annoys him.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Well not me. What's gone is gone. No good
dialog: come from bringing it back.
text: Pause. Paul focuses on his dinner, suddenly ill at ease. He
text: can't help looking, covertly, at Beloved and finds Beloved
text: staring right back at him...It makes him shiver.
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.
text: Sethe is asleep.
text: Paul is restless - tossing and turning as we Intercut;
text: Dream Images flashing across his mind...
scene_heading: - RAIN POURING DOWN A TRENCH. A MUDDY POOL FORMING AROUND A
scene_heading: BLACK MAN'S FEET.
text: - IRON CHAINS FED INTO METAL ANKLE CUFFS.
text: - PAUL D. ON HIS KNEES BEFORE A WHITE GUARD crotch.
speaker_heading: WHITE GUARD (OS)
dialog: YOU HUNGRY NIGGER?
text: Paul awakens.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAWN.
text: Sethe enters to find Paul asleep in the rocker by the stove.
text: She stirs him.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Paul?..Paul?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (waking up)
dialog: Mmmm. What?...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I called you two or three times but I
dialog: gave up round midnight. I thought maybe
dialog: you went out somewhere.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Damn. I'm sorry honey...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I'll make some breakfast - you get
dialog: yourself washed up.
text: Sethe begins to make breakfast as Beloved enters the kitchen
text: and sees Paul has slept in the rocker. She looks at him with
text: a smile, as if she knows more than she's letting on. Paul
text: registers the look.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT.
text: Paul is asleep in the rocker...He is restless...HE DREAMS:
scene_heading: EXT. A ROAD IN VIRGINIA - DAY.
text: Paul is chained by the ankles to forty-five other men. He
text: hands are shackled. In his mouth, an iron bit...
text: The men are being led by WHITE GUARDS with rifles.
text: Camera follows them under a burning sun as they approach;
text: A TRENCH. One thousand feet long. Five feet deep. Five feet
dialog: wide.
text: Camera tilts down to reveal, within the trench;
text: WOODEN BOXES, with scrap limber roofs and a door of bars
text: fitted on them like a cage that opens up to a wall of red
text: dirt stretching two feet above the top of the bars themselves.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT.
text: Paul awakens...his face and body drenched in sweat.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD BETWEEN 124 AND THE STOREROOM - NIGHT.
text: Paul D. walks across the field with a thin blanket over his
text: nightclothes - walking toward the storeroom.
text: In the window of her bedroom, Sethe watches him - sensing he
text: is moving further and further away from her.
text: In the window of Denver's room, Beloved watches Paul as well -
text: with a pleased expression.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: PAUL'S MEMORIES;
scene_heading: EXT. A FIELD IN GEORGIA - DAY.
text: A RIFLE SHOT. A WHITE GUARD SHOUTS;
speaker_heading: WHITE GUARD
dialog: Hiiiiiii!
scene_heading: EXT. TRENCH - DAY.
text: Three white Men walk along the trench unlocking the cage
dialog: doors one by one...
text: One by one, the Black men emerge and stand in a line in the
dialog: trench.
text: When all are assembled, A SECOND RIFLE SHOT signals them to
text: climb out of the trench to the ground above.
text: Waiting for them above the trench, is one thousand feet of
text: chain. Each Black Man bends over and waits as the First Man
text: on line threads the chain through his leg iron, passing it to
dialog: the second and so on...
text: As they connect each other to the chain, Camera Pans down the
text: line of men and while not a word is spoken, WE HEAR THEIR
text: THOUGHTS...thoughts to themselves, or, if possible, through
text: their eyes to the man beside them:
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN ONE
speaker_heading: (VO)
dialog: I'm a make it..
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN TWO
speaker_heading: (VO)
dialog: New man. New man...
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN THREE
speaker_heading: (VO)
text: Steady now, steady.
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN FOUR
speaker_heading: (VO)
dialog: Help me... this mornin's bad.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: THE BLACK MEN ARE CHAINED AND KNEELING IN A STRAIGHT LINE.
text: The White Guards walk passed them. one White Guard stops in
text: front of the man beside Paul D. He turns to him.
speaker_heading: WHITE GUARD
dialog: Breakfast? Want some breakfast nigger?
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN ONE
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: WHITE GUARD
dialog: Hungry nigger?
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN ONE
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: WHITE GUARD
dialog: Here you go.
text: The White Guard unzips his fly and undoes his pants and moves
text: a step closer to the Black Man's mouth.
text: Paul D. looks ahead, trembling...He vomits...The Guard steps
text: away as another Guard steps in and hits Paul on the shoulder
text: with a rifle..
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY.
text: The Black Men work...sledge hammers in hand...
text: As they work, miraculously, THEY SING.."They sing about the
dialog: women they knew, the children they had been...they sing of
text: bosses and masters and misses...of mules and dogs and the
dialog: shamelessness of life...They sing of sisters long gone. They
dialog: sing love songs to Death."
scene_heading: INT. TRENCH - NIGHT.
text: A torrential downpour. The men in the wooden cages watch the
text: rain filling the trench, corroding the red dirt wall around
dialog: them.
text: Bugs and human debris swirl around their legs and feet. Mud
text: covering them through the cracks of the scrap lumber roof.
text: Some finds rest. other's minds are long gone.
text: Camera finds Paul...HE IS SCREAMING. But there is no sound
text: coming from his mouth. Tears flow down his face, but when he
text: touches them, he realizes;
text: They are tears of mud. He looks up and the wooden planked
text: roof is breaking under the power of the rain..He looks down
text: and the water is up to his thighs.
text: Suddenly, the chain linking his feet is pulled and he is
text: knocked down..He gets up, searches through the mud for the
text: chain and notices it's slack..He pulls as well....
text: One by one the men in the boxes realize the chain's end is
text: being undone by the rain, as camera tracks down towards the
text: last box to the dirt wall, into which the chain has been
text: locked...It is giving way within the muddy wall.
text: THE MEN BREAK THROUGH THE ROTTED WOOD ROOFS TO FREEDOM...
speaker_heading: WIDE ANGLE;
text: AS THE MEN CLIMB OUT OF THE MUDDY COFFINS, GRASPING FOR A
text: HOLD, CRAWLING WITH EVERY MUSCLE OF THEIR BODIES - TO GET OUT
text: OF THE TRENCH before mud and water drown them....
text: Paul climbs with the will of ten men, with every ounce of
dialog: strength he has left...
text: END of MEMORY.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. COLD ROOM - A WINTER NIGHT.
text: Paul D. is wide awake. The memories won't let him sleep.
text: Winter has arrived and the night is cold. He lies underneath
text: a thin blanket in yet another sleeping place, even further
text: from the house. He adds newspapers under and around his body
dialog: to stay warm.
text: He looks as if he has given up on sleeping altogether. He
text: hears the door to the cold room open. But he does not turn to
dialog: look.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What do you want in here?
text: Beloved enters the cold room.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I want you to touch me on the inside part
dialog: and call me my name.
text: She hoists up her skirt and turns her head away.. Paul stares
text: at a silver lard can so as not to look.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: When good people take you in and treat
dialog: you good, you ought to try to be good
dialog: back. You don't....Sethe loves you. Much
dialog: as her own daughter. You know that.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: (drops her skirt)
dialog: She don't love me like I love her. I
dialog: don't love nobody but her.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Then what you come in here for?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I want you to touch me on the inside
dialog: part.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Ever since you come here - feel like I
dialog: got a new devil to face.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You have to touch me. On the inside part.
dialog: And you have to call me my name.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Ain't no chains on me no more. I don't
dialog: have to do nothing...Now, go back in that
dialog: house and go to bed.
text: Paul continues to stare at the lard can - like Lot's wife,
text: he's fearful what turning to look will do.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Call me my name.
text: Beloved moves closer, right up behind him, entwining her arms
text: around his body, like chains..
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: No. Ain't no chains on me...
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Call me.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: ...Ain't no chains on me...
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I'll go if you say it.
text: Tears well up in his eyes. Paul can feel her warmth. He
text: surrenders.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Beloved.
text: Beloved presses her body against his. He turns and grabs her,
text: kissing her with a passion bordering on hatred.
scene_heading: EXT. COLD HOUSE - NIGHT.
text: Denver sits outside the cold house - and listens to the
text: sounds of lovemaking. And cries.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT.
text: Sethe, Denver, Paul and Beloved eat dinner...in silence.
scene_heading: INT. COLD HOUSE - ANOTHER NIGHT.
text: Beloved is wrapping her body with a blanket as Paul lies on
text: his bed of newspapers - their lovemaking finished. Beloved
text: gives him a final look - no tenderness or affection or even
text: friendliness. Just a cold look, void of respect or even
dialog: attraction.
text: She exits the cold house, leaving Paul alone. He is on the
text: verge of tears.
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.
text: Paul stands above the sleeping Sethe - his guilt driving him
text: mad. He wants to touch her, to wake her, to ask for
text: forgiveness and help. But he can not and buries his head in
text: his hands.
scene_heading: EXT. SAWYER RESTAURANT - LATE AFTERNOON.
text: Paul waits outside in the cold, cupping his hands and
text: breathing inside to keep them warm. He is rehearsing:
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Look here Sethe..You ain't gonna like
dialog: what I got to say but I got to say
dialog: it...See, it's not the..a man
dialog: can't...what I mean is, it ain't really
dialog: me..see, it ain't weakness, the kind of
dialog: weakness I can fight, that girl is doing
dialog: it. I know you think I never liked her
dialog: nohow, still don't, but she is doing it
dialog: to me anyway. Fixing me, Sethe, she's
dialog: fixed me and I can't break it...
text: Sethe appears, exiting the back door of the restaurant with a
text: scrap pan in the crook of her arm. To her surprise. she finds
text: Paul waiting for her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Man, you make me feel like a young girl,
dialog: you coming by to pick me up after work.
dialog: Nobody ever did that before. Better watch
dialog: out, I might start looking forward to it.
text: She tosses the bones and skins from the scrap pan into a heap
text: before four dogs who wait there as if by appointment.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Got to rinse this out.
text: She enters the restaurant. Paul watches the dogs eat -
text: watching them getting what they wanted. Sethe re-appears with
text: a cloth over her head.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You get off early or what?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I took off early.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Anything the matter?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: In a way of speaking.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Not cut back?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: No, no. They got plenty of work with them
dialog: pigs..More they can handle. I just..
dialog: (Sethe waits)
dialog: You ain't gonna like what I'm about to
dialog: say, Sethe.
text: Sethe steps forward to hear what Paul came to tell her. There
text: is no apprehension or anger in her look. Instead, a calm
dialog: resolve - as if she were already able to accept whatever he
dialog: had to tell her without it being anyone's fault. As if she
text: already knew he cane to say he was leaving her. She smiles.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Well say it, Paul D...whether I like it
dialog: or not.
text: Paul knows what she's expecting. And when he sees her
text: diminished expectation, the melancholy without blame in her
text: eyes....he can't tell her about Beloved. He is filled with
text: respect and admiration for her in that moment. Something pops
text: into his head and out of his mouth that wasn't planned;
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I want you pregnant, Sethe. Would you do
dialog: that for me?
text: Sethe breaks up with laughter. Paul joins in.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You came by here to ask me that!? You are
dialog: one crazy-headed man. You right; I don't
dialog: like it!...Don't you think I'm a little
dialog: too old to start that all over again?
text: She slips her fingers into his.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Think about it.
text: Paul lifts them, putting the tips of her fingers on his
text: cheek. He smiles broadly;
text: She laughs, shaking her head. A burden transformed into a
text: gift, so suddenly. They begin walking.
text: Sethe and Paul catch and snatch each other's fingers,
text: stealing quick pats on the behind, joyfully. Paul throws his
text: arm around Sethe and squeezes. She lets her head touch his
text: chest. They stop and stay that way for a moment - not
text: breathing. Sethe closes her eyes. Paul looks up to the trees
text: lining the roadside like defending arms against attack.
text: Softly, suddenly, it begins to snow. Sethe opens her eyes:
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Mercy.
scene_heading: EXT. BLUESTONE ROAD - EARLY EVENING.
text: On the road towards 124, Paul and Sethe run hand in hand.
text: Snow falling all around them.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I been on my feet all day, Paul D.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Where I been? Sitting down!?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Stop! I don't have the legs for this!
text: They slow to a walk.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Then give'em to me.
text: Before she can stop him, Paul hoists Sethe up over his
dialog: shoulders.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You need some babies..somebody to play
text: with in the snow.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I sure would like to give it a try. Need
dialog: a willing partner though.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I'll say..Very, very willing.
text: They continue laughing and moving down Bluestone Road when
text: they are jolted by the appearance of;
text: Beloved. Waiting in her usual place for Sethe. Her hands
text: wrapped in a long shawl, waiting to be given to Sethe. Her
text: eyes only on Sethe, not even acknowledging Paul's presence.
text: Sethe gets herself down from Paul.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Crazy girl. You out here with nothing on.
text: She takes the shawl from Beloved's hands and wraps it around
text: her shoulders.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You got to learn more sense than that.
text: She walks on ahead with Beloved. Paul, suddenly icy cold and
text: filled with anger, walks behind.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - NIGHT.
text: Denver waits on the porch. Sethe and Beloved walk by her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Evening, girl.
text: Sethe and Beloved enter the house. As Paul approaches, he
text: stops before Denver. Their eyes meet. Paul stares at her, as
text: if to ask - "Who's ally are you?"...Denver, unnerved by his
text: look, runs into the house. Paul waits on the porch until, a
text: moment later, Sethe re-appears.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Now I know you not sleeping out there
dialog: tonight, are you Paul D.?
dialog: (Paul doesn't reply)
dialog: You come upstairs tonight. Where you
dialog: belong...and stay there.
text: As if healed by her strength, Paul's face melts into relief.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT.
text: Denver is cleaning the dishes. Beloved sits like an angry,
text: upset five year old with her fingers in her mouth.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: She likes him here...
dialog: (to Denver)
dialog: Make him go away.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: She'd be mad if he leaves.
text: Beloved didn't consider that. Her fingers move violently in
text: her mouth as if something were bothering her...until,
text: finally, she pulls out a back tooth...her lips slightly
dialog: bloody.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: OOoo..didn't that hurt you?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: It's like my dreams...I get two dreams,
dialog: see..One, I exploding...BUUOOGGG...The
dialog: other I being swallowed. Sometimes it's
dialog: hard to keep my head on my neck, or these
dialog: legs connected to my hips...One day I
dialog: think I might wake up and I'll be in
dialog: pieces..
dialog: (Looks at tooth)
dialog: Maybe it's starting.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: (cleans Beloved's mouth)
dialog: Oh stop. It's just a tooth. Probably
dialog: wisdom. Does it hurt?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Then why don't you cry?
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: If it hurts, why don't you cry?
text: Beloved, eases herself into Denver's arms, and cries...
scene_heading: EXT. WINDOW OF 124 - NIGHT.
text: We see Sethe and Paul united as the snow begins to pile up.
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S BEDROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT.
text: Sethe lies with Paul, in the dark, her face looking up to the
text: ceiling. Paul is asleep.
text: On her face are reservations. She rises, crossing to the
text: window to look out.
text: At the same time, Beloved appears silently at the doorway of
text: the room, looking at Sethe - hurt and sad. She walks by
text: without Sethe noticing her.
text: Sethe takes a breath at the window, watching the snow fall.
text: Then, as she moves back to the bed,...
text: Camera moves ahead of her to:
text: A DIFFERENT BED IN WHICH HALLE IS TRYING TO FALL ASLEEP. A
text: YOUNGER SETHE CRAWLS IN BESIDE HIM.
dialog: WE ARE IN MEMORY;
scene_heading: INT. HALLE &amp; SETHE'S SWEET HOME LIVING QUARTERS - NIGHT.
text: Sethe, Halle and the baby girl (Beloved) sleep together by
text: the wall. The boys sleep together under a window. Halle is
text: trying to sleep but Sethe is awake...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What you think about Schoolteacher?
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: He white, ain't he?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I mean, is he different like Mr. Garner
dialog: was?
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: How was he different?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Well, he and Mrs. Garner - they ain't
dialog: like other whites I seen before.
dialog: Mr. Garner always spoke soft, for one.
dialog: Mrs. Garner too.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: Don't matter. Loud or soft, what they
dialog: say is the same.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Mr. Garner let you buy out your mother.
dialog: Found that house for her to live in from
dialog: those friends of his in Ohio...
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: Yep. He did.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Well?
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: If he hadn't, she would have dropped in
text: his cooking stove.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Still, he did it. Let you work off her
dialog: fee, lending yourself out on Sundays. He
dialog: could of said no. He didn't tell you no.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: No, he didn't tell me no. She worked here
dialog: ten years. If she worked another ten, ya
dialog: think she would have made it? I pay him
dialog: for her last years and in return he got
dialog: you, me and three more coming..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: He always treated you fair. Called you
dialog: all men - said he never wanted niggers on
dialog: his farm.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: That's just it. We was men because he
dialog: said so. We was men because we was on his
dialog: land. You think he be calling us men if
dialog: we ever walked off his land?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: When we walk, don't matter what they call
dialog: you. You'll be free.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: Sethe..baby girl, that ain't gonna
dialog: happen. Not by walking, anyway.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What you mean?
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: Schoolteacher in there told me to quit
dialog: lending myself out.
dialog: That phrase "..while the boys is small"..causes Sethe to look
text: at her sleeping boys..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: But..then..how you gonna buy yourself
dialog: out? Or them?
dialog: (points to the children)
dialog: Or me?
text: Halle raises himself up to face her, to give her the final blow.
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: Ain't gonna be no buying us out, like I
dialog: did with mama. Or them. As far as
dialog: Schoolteacher concerned, ain't no other
dialog: life ahead for any of us but this one.
text: Sethe understands, looks to her sleeping children and is
dialog: frightened.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Halle....what we going to do?
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Sixo, ya know he creeps out at night..he
dialog: says the way they took my ma'am..he says
dialog: freedom is that way. He and Paul A. got a
dialog: plan. They heard of this man, what they
dialog: call an underground agent...if we do what
dialog: he says, don't need no buy out.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You mean...? But what if we caught?
dialog: What'd they do to us? To the children?
speaker_heading: HALLE
dialog: Same thing they're doing now, honey -
dialog: only quicker.
scene_heading: EXT. SWEET HOME - A DAY REMEMBERED.
text: Sethe carries a big basket of berries as young Howard and
text: Bulgar run ahead of her. She turns in the opposite direction
text: and walks along the side of the house to the back entrance of
dialog: the kitchen.
text: She passes the open window of the classroom and hears;
speaker_heading: SCHOOLTEACHER
dialog: (OS)
dialog: Which one are you doing?
speaker_heading: BOY (OS)
dialog: Sethe?
text: Hearing her name, Sethe stops and peeks through the window.
text: Schoolteacher is standing over the student, who has been
text: writing in a notebook. Schoolteacher licks his finger and
text: thumbs a couple of pages before saying;
speaker_heading: SCHOOLTEACHER
dialog: No, no. That's not the way. I told you to
dialog: put her human characteristics on the
text: left; her animal ones on the right. And
dialog: don't forget to line them up.
text: Although Sethe doesn't entirely understand, something about
text: the words disturb her. She looks to her children.
scene_heading: INT. MRS. GARNER'S BEDROOM - A DAY REMEMBERED.
text: Mrs. Garner is sick in bed with a goiter. Sethe enters with
dialog: some soup.
speaker_heading: MRS. GARNER
dialog: I don't think I can swallow that.
dialog: Too thick. I'm sure it's too thick.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Want me to loosen it up with a little
dialog: water?
speaker_heading: MRS. GARNER
dialog: No. Take it away. Bring me some cool
dialog: water, that's all.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Yes ma'am...
text: Sethe helps her drink a glass of cold water.
speaker_heading: MRS. GARNER
dialog: Yes, you can have quite a few.
dialog: (drinks)
dialog: Mmmm. Thank you Sethe. Now tell me, I
dialog: know Halle's no trouble but the others,
dialog: the Pauls and Sixo - how's my brother-in-
dialog: law handling them? All right?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Yes Ma'am. Look like it.
speaker_heading: MRS. GARNER
dialog: They do what he tells them?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: They don't need telling.
speaker_heading: MRS. GARNER
dialog: Good. That's a mercy. I know he's no Mr.
dialog: Garner. But after he died, I had no else
dialog: to turn to. I would've had to sell one.
dialog: It wasn't even enough selling Paul F. And
dialog: in my condition. I needed help. People
dialog: said I shouldn't be alone here with
dialog: nothing but Negroes. And he is a learned
dialog: man being a schoolteacher...
text: As Sethe fills Mrs. Garner's basin with fresh water, she
text: looks out the window and sees:
text: SCHOOLTEACHER outside with his students, we notice HE WEARS A
text: VERY DISTINCTIVE HAT as Mrs. Garners description continues;
speaker_heading: MRS. GARNER
dialog: ...I know his ways might be a little more
dialog: strict but as long as the men do as
dialog: they're told I'm sure it'll be fine. All
dialog: right, I'm through.. Talking makes me
dialog: tired.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Yes ma'am.
scene_heading: INT. BARN - A NIGHT REMEMBERED.
text: Sethe lies beaten and raped, her clothes torn, her body
text: aching and sweaty. She struggles to get to her feet and exit
dialog: the barn.
scene_heading: INT. HALLE AND SETHE'S LIVING QUARTERS - NIGHT.
text: Sethe opens the door to find her children asleep. She is
dialog: about to wake them when;
text: She notices Mrs. Garner's light is on in her bedroom window.
text: Sethe, blind with rage, decides there's one thing she must do
text: before she takes her children to the meeting place.
scene_heading: INT. MRS. GARNER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.
text: Mrs. Garner lies ailing through a sleepless night when her
text: bedroom door opens. Sethe enters - her appearance tells all.
speaker_heading: MRS. GARNER
dialog: My God Sethe..what happened to you?
scene_heading: EXT. SWEET HOME - NIGHT.
text: Sethe carried her baby girl in one arm, her two boys by the
text: hand with the other...They move as fast as they can.
scene_heading: EXT. CORN FIELD - NIGHT.
text: They arrive at the meeting place where A WOMAN crouching in
text: the field is waiting.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Hurry up. You're late.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (hands her the children)
dialog: Here!
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: But ma'am...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Just go with her! Do what I tell ya!
text: Sethe carefully hands her baby girl to the woman.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Put sugar water on that cloth for her to
dialog: suck so she won't forget me til I come.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Where you going?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Halle wasn't there. I gotta go back.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: You crazy..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Take em out. Now! I'll get there myself.
dialog: I got her milk...I'll get there...Don't
dialog: worry.
text: She kisses her baby girl, a little too hard perhaps, waking
dialog: her...along with the boys...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Go..Go! Now!
text: Sethe disappears back into the corn field leaving the Woman
text: holding the baby girl... as Bulgar cries out.
speaker_heading: BULGAR
dialog: Mama?
scene_heading: EXT. CORN FIELD CLOSER TO SWEET HOME HOUSE - NIGHT.
text: Sethe exits the corn field and heads for her living quarters
dialog: when suddenly;
text: THE FOUR BOYS appears from out of nowhere..two restraining
text: her, one holding a horsewhip....
scene_heading: BOY WITH HORSEWHIP
dialog: You nigger bastard..
text: Sethe struggles and is about to scream out when she is
text: slapped and muffled and dragged into the corn field to be
dialog: beaten.....
scene_heading: END OF MEMORY;
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.
text: Sethe awakens, sweating from having fallen asleep and
text: reliving her past nightmare. She sits up and realizes where
text: she is. She looks beside her and sees Paul asleep. She lays
text: down, pressing her body against his so that there is no space
text: between - enfolding her arms around him.
scene_heading: EXT. PIG SLAUGHTERHOUSE - DAY.
text: Pigs are crying in the chute as Paul, Stamp Paid and twenty
text: other workers push and prod them towards the slaughterhouse.
text: Although steeped in pig shit on a wintry day - his hands numb
text: from the cold - Paul D. is in high spirits. HE SINGS as he
text: works much to the amusement of his fellow co-workers.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER 1
dialog: Hey - you like this work so much maybe
dialog: you best get in the chute with the
dialog: others. You ain't got much more sense
dialog: than they do.
text: The men laugh. Paul smiles and brushes it off.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Ain't just a job reason to sing. Other
dialog: things a man's got to look forward to
dialog: that a job just a way to spend your day
dialog: til the good times arrive.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER 2
dialog: Good times? Ain't no such day.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Now, now...it's all a state a mind, right
dialog: Paul D. If you can think it, it can
dialog: happen.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: More than that. When a man can make plans
dialog: then a man can make good times happen.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER 1
dialog: Oh the man's got plans! You saving up for
dialog: a gold mine, boy.
dialog: (more laughter)
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Better then gold, my friend. Me and my
dialog: woman's planning on starting a family.
text: Stamp Paid's face registers sudden concern.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: New life. Born free, hear! Now if that
dialog: don't define a good tine, I don't know
dialog: what does.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER 2
dialog: Nothing born free ever again.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What you talkin? Nobody owns us no more.
dialog: Nobody gonna own my children neither.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER 2
dialog: Children inherit what come before'em.
dialog: Just cause you can't see no chains, don't
dialog: mean they not there. We're not free men.
dialog: We're somewhere between freedom and
dialog: chains. And as long as the world is
dialog: white, that's where we're stayin.
text: The truth of this causes the men to be silent as they
text: continue working. Stamp Paid looks at Paul, confused by what
dialog: he should do.
scene_heading: EXT. PIG SLAUGHTERHOUSE - LATER THAT DAY.
text: The men are on break. Paul sits alone enjoying a lunch packed
text: by Sethe...Stamp Paid approaches and sits beside him.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: May I?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Free country. No matter what anybody says.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I like the way you think, boy. Good. Good
dialog: to think that way. Friend of mine, Baby
dialog: Suggs was her name...sort of became a
dialog: preacher in these parts..that was her way
dialog: of thinking too. When she was at her
dialog: best, that is.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You knew Baby Suggs?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Oh yes...You're not one of her Sweet Home
dialog: men, now are you?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Yes sir...Me and my brothers and her son.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Oh, I see now.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sethe told me she died soft as cream.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Well...maybe on the outside.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Why is that?
text: Stamp Paid looks at him with sympathetic, sudden
dialog: understanding.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You don't know, son, do you? See I had to
dialog: figure that out first.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Know what?
text: Stamp Paid pulls out AN OLD NEWSPAPER CLIPPING from a bag he
text: carries with him all the time. He hands it to Paul who looks
dialog: to see:
text: A DRAWING OF A YOUNG BLACK WOMAN beneath a HEADLINE; MURDER!
text: RUNAWAY SLAVE KILLS CHILD....
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: That there's a picture of Sethe.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sethe?
dialog: (studies it)
dialog: Nah, that ain't her mouth. I can see
dialog: where you might think it around the eyes
dialog: but that there ain't her mouth. Besides,
dialog: why would some black woman's picture be
dialog: in the paper?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You don't read son, do you?
dialog: (Paul shakes head NO)
dialog: You want me to read to you?
text: Paul senses something terribly wrong...and doesn't know
dialog: whether to say yes or no.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - EARLY EVENING.
text: Sethe is sweeping the porch.
text: Paul appears on the road. When he sees Sethe on the porch in
text: the distance, he stops.
text: Sethe sees him and smiles - but something about his slow
text: approach to the house sends off an alarm within her.
text: Paul makes his way to the porch. He stops before her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Already fed the girls. You eat?
dialog: (he shakes NO)
dialog: Want something?
text: Paul doesn't answer. Instead, he steps up to her as he
text: removes the clipping from his pocket and hands it to her.
text: Sethe's heart stops beating for a moment - not having seen
dialog: this image for many years. But she's survived worse than the
text: telling so she faces him.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Best you come inside.
text: She rises and enters the house. Paul follows.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - EARLY EVENING.
text: Paul sits at the table. Sethe begins her story seated before
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I don't have to tell you about Sweet
dialog: Home. What it was. But maybe you don't
dialog: know what it was like for me to get away
dialog: from there.
text: She looks for a response but expects none.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I did it. I got us all out. Without Halle
dialog: too. Up til then it was the only thing I
dialog: ever did on my own. Decided. And it came
dialog: off right like it was supposed to..
text: She rises and begins to move about the room, circling Paul
text: as she tries to find a way to explain it all;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: We was here. Each and every one of my
dialog: babies and me too. I birthed them and I
dialog: got 'em out and it wasn't no accident. I
dialog: did that! I had help, of course, lots of
dialog: that, but still it was me doing it; me
dialog: saying, "Go on" and "Now!". Me having to
dialog: look out. Me using my own head. But it
dialog: was more than that. It was a kind of
dialog: ...'thinking-about-myself' I never knew
dialog: nothing about before. It felt good. Good
dialog: and right. I was big, Paul, and deep and
text: wide and when I stretched out my arms all
dialog: my children could get in between. I was
dialog: that wide. Look like I loved them more
dialog: after I got them here. Or maybe I
dialog: couldn't love'em proper in Sweet Home
dialog: 'cause they wasn't mine to love. But when
dialog: I got here, when I jumped off that wagon -
dialog: there wasn't nobody in the world I
dialog: couldn't love if I wanted to....
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: MEMORY... as SETHE NARRATES:
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: I had 28 days...28 good days of free
dialog: life.....
scene_heading: INT. SETHE'S ROOM AT 124 - A DAWN REMEMBERED.
text: Sethe, out of habit, is awake before the sun has risen. She
text: is fully dressed.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ...of getting up like I always did,
dialog: getting dressed before the sun came out,
dialog: and then realizing I had to decide myself
dialog: what to do with the day...
text: She sits on the bed, watching the sun rise.
scene_heading: INT. THE CHILDREN'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS.
text: Sethe watches her children sleeping, safely.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ...Days of watching my children sleep
dialog: away the morning...And taking care of my
dialog: baby like it was the most important thing
dialog: I had to do...
text: Denver is asleep in a bassinet. Sethe reaches in and picks
text: her up. She sits by a window and breast feeds her as she hums
text: A MELODY. (This is the same melody we heard Sethe humming in
text: the beginning of the film).
text: Sethe's melody carries itself over the following images;
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE ; WATER PUMP - DAY.
text: Sethe is carrying a bucket of water to the house. She sees:
text: Bulgar and Howard running and playing. Howard tackles his
text: brother and starts tickling him. The two boys laugh hard.
text: Sethe watches, a moment of fear across her face;
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: I'd hear my boys laughing a laugh I ain't
dialog: never heard. And for a second I'd get
dialog: scared - scared someone might hear them
dialog: and get mad...
text: Sethe realizes, placing down the bucket:
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: Then I remembered...and if they laughed
dialog: that hard til it hurt, that would be the
dialog: only hurt they had all day....
text: Sethe sobs, uncontrollably.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: Ella teaches Sethe a new stitch as she chatters on.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: We had us days of company...
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY.
text: Another woman teaches Sethe the alphabet, as Sethe cradles
text: Denver and the Little Girl (Beloved) crawls around her feet.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY.
text: Baby Suggs and Sethe cook with a kitchen full of men and
dialog: women who have come for a visit.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ...of ease and real talk. Talks about the
dialog: Fugitive Bill, Dred Scott or book
text: learning...Talks as quiet or as stormy as
dialog: we wanted...
text: Two men get into an argument to the amusement of the women.
scene_heading: EXT. CLEARING IN THE WOODS - DAY.
text: As folks gather to hear Baby Suggs preach, she introduces a
text: smiling, shy Sethe to each one.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ...And when everyone would gather to hear
dialog: Baby Suggs, I saw something I ain't never
dialog: seen before in my whole life...
text: Alone for a moment, Sethe looks around at the crowd of faces;
text: Sethe's Melody stops as Baby Suggs stands on her rock and
dialog: calls to the crowd:
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Let the children come!
text: FROM OUT OF THE WOODS, CHILDREN RUN INTO THE CLEARING.
text: Camera follows the joyous exodus to reveal:
text: THE CLEARING IS FILLED WITH ADULTS the entire black
dialog: community of the days when Sethe first arrived. The children
dialog: run to their respective families;
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: (with joy)
dialog: Let your mother's hear you laugh!!
text: The children, loving the game, laugh hard. The adults get a
dialog: kick out of it.
text: Sethe watches her boys and hides her laughter.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Let the grown men come!!
text: OUT OF THE WOODS, A GROUP OF GROWN MEN COME INTO THE CLEARING.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: LET YOUR WIVES AND YOUR CHILDREN SEE YOU
speaker_heading: DANCE!
text: The men form a circle and dance as the crowd supports them
text: with a clapping rhythm. A SONG arises from the women to
dialog: accompany to dance....
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Now...you women...I want you to cry. For
dialog: the living. For the dead....Just cry.
text: Camera follows those women who are not singing as one by one,
dialog: they remember and weep...
text: Sethe watches...and weeps.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: ....Something in me knew Halle was never
dialog: gonna knock on our door. He was never
dialog: gonna see what I saw that day. I saw what
dialog: men look like...and I saw mothers, for
dialog: the first time.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: Stamp Paid walks up to the porch carrying a TWO BIG BASKETS
text: OF BLACKBERRIES ... his body dirty, scratched and bleeding.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: I think it was Stamp Paid who started it.
text: He walked six miles to the riverbank,
text: slid into a ravine, reached through blood
dialog: drawing thorns, suffered mosquitoes,
dialog: wasps and the meanest lady spiders in the
dialog: State just to bring us those berries.
text: He places the baskets on the porch in front of Baby Suggs,
text: Sethe who is holding Denver..and the Little Girl (Beloved).
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: What a sight you are, Stamp.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Worth it though. Just one bite of these
dialog: berries and you feel down right anointed.
text: He puts one into Denver's mouth.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: She's too little for that, Stamp. Her
dialog: bowels be soup.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: It'll sickify her stomach..Now go wash up
dialog: round back...crazy fool..
text: Stamp exits.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: It was real nice of him.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: He's a good one, no doubt of that. I can
dialog: get three, maybe four pies out of this.
dialog: Seems a shame just for us though. I'm
dialog: gonna invite Ella and John over...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: How 'bout if I make a couple of chickens
dialog: to back it up?
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: And that's how it began...
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY.
text: Sethe and Baby Suggs and Ella and several other women cook.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ...Three pies became twelve...two hens
dialog: became five turkeys...
scene_heading: EXT.THE FIELD/124 BLUESTONE RD. - EVENING.
text: Various images of people gathered enjoying food and
text: drink...laughing and singing...
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
text: ...and Ella and John turned into almost
dialog: ninety others...
dialog: - Women serving up the food...
text: - Older men sitting and talking as they eat...
text: - Younger men playing with the children. Chasing them with
text: sheets on their backs, scaring them into laughter..
text: - A Man with a guitar playing a blues song and singing.
text: While Sethe enjoys her free life and, most of all, her
text: children - the boys running around her..Denver in her
text: arms..Her Little Girl (Beloved) by her side.. Baby Sugg's
text: visits with various guests, serving up the food...
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ... Everybody ate so well and laughed so
dialog: much...
text: INTERCUT; Images of whispers exchanged between some of the
dialog: women:
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ...it made them angry...
text: Women head to head with a remark or an eye of disapproval
text: towards Baby Suggs as she continues cooking and feeding....
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: The pies, the turkeys...the bread pudding
dialog: and shortbread..the one whole block of
dialog: ice brought all the way from Cincinnati -
dialog: it made 'em mad...Loaves and fishes were
dialog: Jesus's powers...they did not belong to
dialog: an ex-slave who never had a white boy
text: beat her, who had her freedom bought, who
dialog: rented a house from white folks that
dialog: hated slavery worse than they hated
dialog: slaves...It made'em furious - her
dialog: thoughtless generosity and un-called for
dialog: pride...She had over stepped...offended
dialog: them by giving too much...and they left
dialog: their disapproval there so's you could
dialog: smell in the air the whole next day...
scene_heading: EXT. THE FIELD/ 124 BLUESTONE RD. - THE FOLLOWING DAY.
text: Baby Suggs works the field, not far from Stamp Paid...
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: Later on I wondered why no one warned
dialog: us...why no one saw them coming and ran
dialog: to 124 to tell us...
text: She chops at the soil over the roots of the pepper plants.
text: She stops - sensing something is wrong. She looks up at a
text: clear blue sky...She hears the birds and the stream way down
text: beyond the woods..
text: She looks around and sees Bulgar, Howard and the Little Girl
text: (Beloved) playing with loud voices by the side of the house.
text: She sees Sethe squatted in the pole beans with Denver in a
text: bushel basket beside her.
text: The clok, clok of wood being chopped causes her to look over
text: to Stamp Paid, helping out with the axe...
text: She returns to her work...but something is deeply wrong.
text: And then she hears it;
text: THE SOUND OF HORSES and A HORSE DRAWN WAGON coming from the
dialog: distance. (The same sound Sethe heard in her first memory of
dialog: the sycamores earlier on)
text: She rises up and looks;
speaker_heading: POV;
scene_heading: EXT. BLUESTONE ROAD - DAY.
text: Far in the distance, FOUR HORSEMEN ARE RIDING TOWARD THEM.
text: ONE DRIVES A WAGON and IS WEARING A DISTINCTIVE HAT - IT IS
text: SCHOOLTEACHER.....
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE FIELD OF 124 BLUESTONE - DAY.
text: Sethe continues working until she notices peripherally that
text: Baby Suggs is standing stock still, staring at something.
text: Sethe rises and looks in the same direction;
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BLUESTONE ROAD - DAY.
text: The Four Horsemen are closer...
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE FIELD OF 125 BLUESTONE - DAY.
text: Sethe's face freezes in terror as ...
text: Stamp Paid, in between chops, looks up and sees the two
text: women..then turns his face to see the men.
text: BUT IT IS SETHE'S FACE WE CONCENTRATE ON - AS WE INTERCUT THE
text: ONCOMING APPROACH OF THE FOUR HORSEMEN and HEAR HER WORDS:
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ...There's a Look whitefolks get..a Look
dialog: every Negro learns to recognize along
dialog: with his ma'am's tit..That righteous Look
dialog: that's like a flag going up the pole..the
text: righteousness that announces the whip,
dialog: the fist, the burning, the lie...long
text: before it happens in the open...
text: Over the above speech, we see in Sethe's expression a death
text: of soul - an instantaneous loss of hope for possibilities of
text: joy and life. And with it, an insane rage.
text: Sethe grabs Denver out of the basket, then scrambles after
text: the crawling Little Girl (Beloved), scooping her under her
dialog: free arm...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Howard!...Bulgar!
text: The tone of her voice cause the boys to freeze. She runs
text: towards them, grabbing one by the hand and ordering the other
text: to run in front of them. She moves and speaks with efficient
dialog: clarity.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: The shed!...Get in the shed!...Run!
text: Baby Suggs and Stamp Paid watch helplessly -
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE -
dialog: The Four Horsemen - Schoolteacher, his Nephew, a Slave
text: Catcher and a Sheriff - arrive at the house and dismount,
text: tying their horses to the front gate (which is no longer
dialog: there).
text: The Nephew scampers to the front of the house and peers in
text: the window - he listens. Hearing nothing he motions for them
dialog: to go round the side of the house.
text: Camera follows them as it reveals Baby Suggs and Stamp Paid
dialog: standing exactly where we left them...Except;
text: They are both staring at the shed - out of which strange
text: noises, thuds and the FRIGHTENED CRIES OF CHILDREN are heard....
text: Two Black Boys and several Woman are coming up the road. The
text: Slave Catcher motions with his rifle for them to stop - and
dialog: they do.
text: The men move towards the shed, meeting up with the Nephew as
text: he runs past Baby Suggs and Stamp Paid...
speaker_heading: POV;
text: Camera moves closer towards the shed, the sounds coning from
text: within more audible now...
scene_heading: INT. THE SHED -
text: The Nephew opens the door. The Four Men enter....
text: Howard and Bulgar are bleeding in the sawdust, unconscious -
text: a bloody shovel lays near them.
text: Sethe is holding a blood-soaked Little Girl (Beloved) to her
text: chest with one hand...and Denver by the heels of the other.
text: She is swinging Denver toward the wall planks, misses then
dialog: tries again...
text: When out of nowhere, Stamp Paid rushes by the horrified white
text: men and GRABS DENVER OUT OF SETHE'S HAND before she can swing
dialog: her a second time...
text: Stillness.
text: Schoolteacher looks at the carnage...a bloody saw lies at
text: Sethe's feet, the weapon she used on her own child's throat.
text: The Nephew is paralyzed...horrified.
speaker_heading: NEPHEW
dialog: What she go and do that for?...What she
dialog: go and do that for?
text: Baby Suggs walks in. Whatever amount of God's grace she could
text: imagine and will into being, vanishes with one look into that
dialog: shed.
speaker_heading: SHERIFF
dialog: You all better go on.
dialog: (to Schoolteacher)
dialog: Nothing here to claim, I guess.
dialog: Look like your business is over. Mine's
dialog: started.
text: Schoolteacher beats his hat against his thigh and spits in
text: the shed before exiting, followed by the catcher and the
dialog: nephew.
text: The Sheriff speaks to Sethe.
speaker_heading: SHERIFF
dialog: I'll have to take you in. No trouble now.
dialog: You've done enough to last you....
text: Sethe doesn't move.
speaker_heading: SHERIFF
dialog: You come quiet, here, and I won't have to
dialog: tie you up.
text: Meanwhile, Baby Suggs notices who breathes and who does not
text: and moves straight to the boys....
text: Stamp Paid extends his arm to Sethe.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Sethe. You take my arm and gimme yours.
text: Sethe turns to him, the first time she's looked into anyone's
text: eyes and sees Denver in his arms...A sound escapes from her
text: throat as though she'd made a mistake.
speaker_heading: SHERIFF
dialog: I'm going out here and send for a wagon.
text: He exits. Baby Suggs rubs the boys' hands, tries to raise
text: their eyelids, spits on her dress and wipes away the blood as
text: they slowly regain a dazed consciousness..She whispers;
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: I beg you pardon..I beg your pardon..
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. -
text: Sethe, clutching the dead baby to her chest, is led out of
dialog: the shed by Stamp Paid,
text: Outside, a throng of black faces have gathered who stop
text: murmuring the second they see her. Among them are Ella and
text: Lady Jones. They are shocked and pained.
text: Sethe is led past them to a waiting cart - in total silence.
text: Baby Suggs, at the same time, is getting the boys up the
text: porch into the house. When Denver cries in Stamp Paid's arms,
text: she stops..lets the boys sit and runs towards the cart.
text: Sethe is seated in the cart beside the Sheriff. Baby Suggs
text: takes the crying Denver from Stamp Paid..She tells the
dialog: Sheriff.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Excuse me..but the child needs
dialog: nursin..needs the mother's milk..
speaker_heading: SHERIFF
dialog: Then she's best come too.
text: Baby Suggs approaches Sethe who sees Denver crying and
text: reaches for her without letting the baby go. Baby Suggs
dialog: resists;
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: One at a time!...And you gotta clean
dialog: yourself up!
text: But Sethe only wants her living child. The two women struggle
text: as Stamp Paid does what he can..Finally, Sethe wins and takes
text: Denver with her free hand, undoes her dress and nurse's her
text: with a bloody breast..
text: Baby Suggs breaks inside. Breaks right in two, although from
text: outwards appearances, she looks merely numbed by shock.
text: A WHITE BOY makes his way through the crowd with a pair of
text: shoes and hands them to her..
speaker_heading: WHITE BOY
dialog: Mama says Wednesday. She says you got to
dialog: have them fixed by Wednesday.
text: Baby Suggs looks at him not understanding..
speaker_heading: WHITE BOY
dialog: You hear, Baby? She says Wednesday.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: (taking the shoes)
dialog: I beg your pardon..Lord, I beg your
dialog: pardon..I sure do....
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: PRESENT DAY (END OF MEMORY) :
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - NIGHT.
text: Paul D. sits at the kitchen table. The story told. Sethe
text: looks out the window...and waits..
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Your love is too thick, Sethe.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Love is or it isn't. Thin love ain't love
dialog: at all...I did stop him. I took and put
dialog: my babies where they'd be safe...
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Didn't work though, did it?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: It worked.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: How? Your boys gone, you don't know
dialog: where. One girl dead, the other can't go
dialog: farther than the yard. How did it work?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: They ain't at Sweet Home! Schoolteacher
dialog: ain't got'em!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Maybe there's worse.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: It ain't my job to know what's worse.
dialog: It's my job to know what is and keep them
dialog: away from what I know is terrible. I did
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What you did was wrong, Sethe.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I should have gone back there? Taken my
dialog: babies back there?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: There could have been a way. Some other
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: What way?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You got two feet, Sethe. Not four!
text: That jumped out before he had a chance to choose saying it.
text: Sethe has no response...The distance between these two people
text: in this small room is suddenly vast.
text: Paul rises, playing with his hat...not knowing how to leave.
text: But desperately needing to. He moves to the exit and stops..
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You can set aside supper for me... Might
dialog: be late getting back...
text: Unable to look at her, he turns to exit. When Sethe speaks in
text: a soft, forgiving tone, he stops to listen;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: After all I told you, Paul D. and after
dialog: telling me how many feet I have, you
dialog: think saying goodbye is gonna break me
dialog: into pieces?
text: Paul turns to look at her and realizes she saw right through
dialog: him...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You're a sweet man.
text: Unable to bear it, Paul turns and leaves...
text: Sethe stands still, fighting tears, and whispers...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: So long, Paul D.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY.
text: Sethe is scrubbing the floor, with Denver trailing by with
text: dry rags.
text: Beloved enters holding a pair of ice skates;
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: What do these do?
text: Sethe and Beloved look up. Sethe smiles;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: My Lord...where'd you dig up those?
speaker_heading: DENVER
text: There for skating on the ice.
dialog: We have another pair and half of another,
dialog: I think.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Can we try them?
text: Sethe takes the skates and looks at them with a curious
dialog: lightness:
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Go ice skating? Ha...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You sure mama?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Strikes me that after your man leaves, it
dialog: might just be the wrong time to be
dialog: scrubbing floors... might just be the
dialog: perfect time to go ice skating.
text: Denver and Beloved register hopefulness in the light of
text: Sethe's attitude. Sethe speaks to Denver;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Go get the shawls..and find me an old
dialog: shoe for that half a pair...
text: The girls get excited. Sethe tosses the scrub brush into the
dialog: pail.
scene_heading: EXT. A FROZEN CREEK - DAY.
text: A bright, cold winter day. Beloved wears a pair of old
text: skates. Denver wears the second pair and Sethe has one skate
text: and one shoe..The two girls giggle and fall as they try to
text: skate on the ice... helping each other up. Their skirts
text: whirling...their laughter mingled with screams of delight.
text: Sethe, wearing only shoes, watches them and laughs.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Come on, ma'am...try!
text: Sethe steps onto the ice and takes a few strides and promptly
text: falls on her rear. The girls scream with laughter. Sethe
text: tries to get up and falls, their laughter infecting her as
text: well. The girls try to help her and fall over each other in
dialog: the trying.
text: Denver rises and tries an independent glide. The tip of her
text: skate hits a bump and she falls, flapping her arms wildly.
text: All three laugh so hard, they start coughing. Beloved goes to
dialog: Denver's aid.
text: Sethe rises up on her hands and knees, her laughter shaking
text: her chest and causing her eyes to tear in the cold air.
text: Beloved helps Denver, and falls as well. The two girls see
text: Sethe laughing and play it up even more, a few more times...
text: Until, Denver notices something and motions Beloved to stop
dialog: and look.
text: The two glide back to Sethe. Her laughter has stopped, but
text: her tears have not... They gently, comfortingly, touch her
dialog: shoulder.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT.
text: It is a snowy night outside the windows.
text: Sethe has laid out blankets and quilts in front of the fire
text: in the stove. She has made sweet milk that she hands to the
text: girls before taking her place in between them, on the floor,
text: facing the fire; Denver, on her right, rests her head on her
text: lap. Beloved sits on her left.
text: She looks over to Beloved who is staring at the fire. The
text: illumination highlights her beauty and her profile; the chin,
text: mouth, forehead - all copied and exaggerated in a huge shadow
text: the fire threw on the wall. Sethe can't help but stare as
text: another thought occurs to her;
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS (V.O.)
dialog: ...All I remember is how she loved the
text: bottom of burned bread. Her little
dialog: hands...I wouldn't know 'em if they
dialog: slapped me".
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: ..."Here. Look here. See this mark? If
dialog: you can't tell me by my face, look here."
text: Beloved lifts her head towards the fire at the same time she
text: leans back to rest on a propped-up pillow. In the flickering
text: of the firelight, Sethe can see:
text: A SMILE OF A SCAR BENEATH HER CHIN.
text: Sethe knows before she's aware of it consciously. And just as
text: it hits her, BELOVED BEGINS TO HUM A MELODY.
text: Sethe recognizes it as her own melody.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I made that song up. I made it up and
dialog: sang it to my children...
text: Denver lifts her head from her mother's lap to look at Sethe,
dialog: knowing what is happening....
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: ...Nobody knows that song but me and my
dialog: children.
text: Beloved turns to Sethe;
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I know it.
text: A click. Sethe looks at her daughter, returned. "There is no
dialog: gasp of astonishment - no exclaim for the miraculous. For
dialog: what is truly miraculous is so, because the magic lies in the
dialog: fact that you knew it was there for you all along."
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: MORNING;
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING.
text: It's snowy white outside. The girls are still asleep in front
text: of the stove. But Denver awakens upon hearing her mother load
text: the stove with dry wood and begin to cook breakfast. Sethe
text: hears her wake up and turns, as she beats eggs in a bowl;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Back stiff?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: OOh, yeah...Don't know if it's the floor
dialog: or the skating.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Could be that fall you took.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: That was fun.
text: Beloved snores lightly beside her;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Should I wake her?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No, let her rest.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: She likes to see you off in the morning.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I'll make sure she does. But first I'm
dialog: going make up a nice, big breakfast
dialog: against that cold outside.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Won't you be late for work?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't matter. First time I'll be late in
dialog: nine years. No great trouble..Whatever
text: goes on out there goes on with or without
dialog: me showing up on time... don't matter...
dialog: (looks at the girls)
dialog: The world is in this room, baby. This is
dialog: all there is and all there needs to be.
text: Denver smiles - but it is a cautious smile. Something about
text: her mother's statement both elates and disturbs her.
scene_heading: EXT. BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: A conflicted and contrite Stamp Paid walks through the snow
text: down Bluestone road towards 124.
text: As he does, he remembers his last conversation with Baby
dialog: Suggs;
speaker_heading: MEMORY:
scene_heading: EXT. RICHMOND STREET - DAY.
text: A fall day. Leaves ankle high. Stamp Paid is walking when he
text: sees baby Suggs carrying a carpetbag full of repaired shoes.
text: He crosses over to her as he gets her attention;
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You missed the Clearing meeting three
dialog: Saturdays running.
text: Baby Suggs turns to her old friend - but there is no sign of
text: welcome or recognition. There is a noticeable change in her
text: demeanor. She continues walking. He follows;
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Folks came.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
text: Folks come. Folks go.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Here, let me carry that.
text: He reaches for the carpetbag but Baby Suggs pulls it away.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: I got a delivery around here. Name of
dialog: Tucker.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: (points)
text: Yonder. Twin chestnuts in the yard.
dialog: They walk a bit, until;
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Well?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Well what?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: This Saturday - you coming to Call or
dialog: what?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: If I call them, and they come what on
dialog: earth am I going to say to them.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Say the Word!
text: Two whitemen raking leaves look up at the sound of Stamp
text: Paid's voice, which was too loud. So he whispers;
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: The Word. What you was put here to speak.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: That's the last thing they took from me.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: But you got to do it. You got to. Can't
dialog: nobody Call like you. You have to be
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: What I have to do is get in my bed and
dialog: lay down. I want to fix on something
dialog: harmless in this world.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: What world are you talking about? Ain't
dialog: nothing harmless down here.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Blue. That doesn't hurt nobody. Yellow
dialog: neither.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You getting into bed to think about
dialog: yellow?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: I likes yellow.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Then what? When you get through with blue
dialog: and yellow, then what?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Can't say. It's something can't be
dialog: planned.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You blaming God. That what you're doing?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: No, Stamp. I ain't.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You saying whitefolks won. That what you
dialog: saying?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Those white things have taken all I had
dialog: or dreamed. I'm saying ain't no bad luck
dialog: in this world 'cept for white folks..They
dialog: just don't know when to stop.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You saying nothing counts?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: I'm saying they came into my yard.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You saying God give up? Nothing left for
dialog: us but pour out our own blood?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: I'm saying they came into my yard.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You punishing Him, ain't you?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Not like He punished me.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You can't do that, Baby. It ain't right.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Was a time I knew what was.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You still know.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: What I know is what I see: a nigger woman
dialog: hauling shoes.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Aw, Baby.
text: He stops her, before the Twin Chestnuts of the Tucker house.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: We have to be steady. "These things too
dialog: will pass". What you looking for? A
dialog: miracle?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: No. I'm looking for what I was put here
dialog: to look for: the back door.
text: They exchange a look of silence and finality. She turns and
text: walks to the back door of the house and knocks. A moment
text: later a White Woman appears, takes the carpetbag and keeps
text: Baby waiting on the back steps while she goes in for a dime.
text: Baby rests on the railing until the whitewoman returns.
scene_heading: MEMORY END.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: Now, Stamp Paid feels the need to find out what's going on
text: inside 124 since he caused Paul to leave. He approaches the
text: porch, then the front door. He raises his hands to knock -
text: but he can't bring himself to do it.
text: He turns to walk away then stops. He turns back and with a
text: force of will, KNOCKS LOUDLY upon the door. No answer. He
text: KNOCKS AGAIN. Still no answer.
text: He steps back, trying to sense if anyone's there. He turns to
text: leave when he sees;
text: TWO HEADS in the window. Denver and Beloved. Denver bolts
text: away, but Beloved remains a moment longer - looking in Stamp
text: Paid's eye, then disappearing into the house.
text: Stamp Paid is unnerved by her look.
scene_heading: INT. SAWYER'S RESTAURANT - LATE MORNING.
text: Sethe enters late, putting on her apron as SAWYER yells;
speaker_heading: SAWYER
dialog: What the hell you thinking, girl?
dialog: Strolling in here this late?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't talk to me, Mr. Sawyer. Don't say
dialog: nothing to me this morning.
speaker_heading: SAWYER
dialog: What? What? You talking back to me?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I'm telling you don't say nothing to me.
text: Sethe begins organizing her counter to make pies.
speaker_heading: SAWYER
dialog: You better get them pies made!
text: Sethe ignores him as she begins. Sawyer is at a loss.
speaker_heading: SAWYER
dialog: Not too sweet! You make it too sweet they
dialog: don't eat it.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Make it the way I always do.
speaker_heading: SAWYER
dialog: Yeah. Too sweet.
dialog: (he exits)
scene_heading: INT. ELLA'S HOUSE - DAY.
text: Ella opens the front door for Stamp Paid. He looks disturbed.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Where you been keeping yourself? I told
dialog: John must be cold if Stamp stay inside.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Oh I been out.
text: Stamp takes off his hat and follows Ella, who is doing
text: laundry in the kitchen.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Out where?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Was over to Baby Suggs.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: What you want there? Somebody invite you
dialog: in?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: That's Baby's kin. I don't need no invite
dialog: to look after her people.
text: Ella shrugs and continues folding wet laundry on a line
text: behind the stove. Stamp sits.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Somebody new there. A woman. Thought you
dialog: might know who she is.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Ain't no new Negroes in this town I don't
dialog: know about. What she look like? You sure
dialog: that wasn't Denver?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I know Denver.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: You sure?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I know what I see.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Might see anything at all at 124.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: True.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Better ask Paul D.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Can't locate him.
speaker_heading: ELLA
text: He's sleeping in the church.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: The church!
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Yeah. Asked Rev. Pike if he could stay in
dialog: the cellar.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: It's cold as charity in there! What he do
dialog: that for? Any number'll take him in.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Can't nobody read minds long distance.
dialog: All he have to do is ask somebody.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Why? Why he have to ask? Can't nobody
dialog: offer? What's going on? Since when a
dialog: black man come to town have to sleep in
dialog: the cellar like a dog?!
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Unrile yourself, Stamp. It's only a few
dialog: days he been there.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: NO! Shouldn't be no days! You know all
dialog: about it and don't give him a hand? That
dialog: don't sound like you, Ella. Me and you
dialog: been pulling colored folk out the water
dialog: more'n twenty years! Now you tell me you
dialog: can't offer a man a bed?! A working man
dialog: who can pay his own way?
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: He ask, I give him anything.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Why's that necessary all of a sudden?
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: I don't know him that well.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You know he's colored? What else there to
dialog: know?
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Stamp, don't tear me up this morning! I
dialog: don't feel like it.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: It's her, ain't it?
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Her who?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
text: Sethe. He took up with her and stayed in
dialog: there and you don't want nothing to-
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Hold on! Don't jump if you can't see
dialog: bottom!
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Girl, give it up! We been friends too
dialog: long to act like this.
text: Beat. Ella knows he's right. She surrenders the truth.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Well, who can tell what went on in there?
dialog: I never even knew who Sethe was or none
dialog: of her people.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You know she married Baby Suggs' boy.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: I ain't sure I know that. Baby never laid
dialog: eyes on her till she showed up here. And
dialog: how'd she make it and her husband didn't?
dialog: And where is he? And how she have that
dialog: baby in the woods by herself? Said a
dialog: whitewoman help her. Shoot. You believe
dialog: that? Well, I know what kind of white
dialog: that was.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Aw, no, Ella.
speaker_heading: ELLA
text: Anything white floating around in the
dialog: woods - if it don't got a shotgun, it's
dialog: something the Lord tells me I don't want
dialog: no part of.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You was friends.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Till she showed herself.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Ella.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: I ain't got no friends take a handsaw to
dialog: their own children.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: What's any of that got to do with Paul
dialog: D.?
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: What run him off? Tell me that!
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I run him off.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: You?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I told him...Showed him the newspaper.
dialog: About Sethe. Read it to him. He left that
dialog: very day.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: You didn't tell me that. I thought he
dialog: already knew.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: He didn't know nothing. And nobody.
dialog: Except her, from when they was at that
dialog: place Baby Suggs was at.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: He knew Baby Suggs?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Sure he knew her. Her boy Halle, too.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: And he left when he found out what Sethe
dialog: did?
dialog: (Stamp sits)
dialog: What you say casts a different light on
dialog: it, I guess...I thought-
dialog: Stamp knows what she thought.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: But you didn't come here talking 'bout
dialog: Paul. You came asking about a new girl.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: That's so.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Well, Paul D. must know who she is. Or
dialog: what she is.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You mind loaded with spirits. Everywhere
dialog: you look you see one.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: You know as well as I do, Stamp, that
dialog: people who die bad don't stay in the
dialog: ground.
dialog: Stamp can not deny this.
scene_heading: EXT. BLUESTONE ROAD - EARLY EVENING.
text: Sethe is walking home to her daughters. There is a serene,
text: introverted expression on her face...as if she were detached
text: from the world around her, safe inside. We hear her thoughts:
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: Beloved, she my daughter...She mine. She
dialog: come back to me of her own free will and
dialog: I don't have to explain a thing.. She had
dialog: to be safe and I put her where I knew she
dialog: would be. But my love was tough and she
dialog: back now. She come back to me in the
dialog: flesh...I won't never let her go. I'll
dialog: explain to her, even though I don't have
dialog: to. Why I did it. How if I hadn't killed
dialog: her she would have died and that is
dialog: something I couldn't let happen to her.
dialog: When I explain she'll understand, cause
dialog: she understands everything already..And
dialog: she ain't even mad...When I put that
dialog: headstone up I wanted to lay in there
dialog: with you, put your head on my shoulder
dialog: and keep you warm and I would have if
dialog: Bulgar and Howard and Denver didn't need
dialog: me, because my mind was homeless then. I
dialog: couldn't lay down with you then. No
dialog: matter how much I wanted to. I couldn't
dialog: lay down nowhere in peace, back then. Now
dialog: I can. I can sleep like the drowned, have
dialog: mercy. She come back to me, my daughter,
scene_heading: DENVER'S VOICE OVER FADES IN OVER SETHE'S....
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO) DENVER
dialog: my Beloved and she Beloved is my
dialog: is mine.... sister...
speaker_heading: DENVER (VO)
dialog: ..and she is mine...
speaker_heading: FADE TO;
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE ROAD - EARLY EVENING.
text: Denver is cleaning the kitchen, waiting for her mother. We
dialog: hear her thoughts:
speaker_heading: DENVER (VO)
dialog: ..I swallowed her blood right along with
dialog: my mother's milk. She played with me and
dialog: always came to be with me whenever I
dialog: needed her. Me and her waited for our
dialog: daddy. I love her. I do. She never hurt
dialog: me. I love my mother but I know she
text: killed one of her own, and tender as she
dialog: is with me, I'm scared of her because of
dialog: it. All the time, I'm afraid the thing
dialog: that happened that made it all right to
dialog: kill her own, could happen again.
dialog: Whatever it is, it comes from outside
dialog: this house, outside the yard. So I never
dialog: leave this house and I watch over the
dialog: yard so it can't happen again ... I have
dialog: to keep it away from my sister...I'll
dialog: protect Beloved...'Cause She's mine...
text: BELOVED'S VO FADES IN OVER DENVER'S...
speaker_heading: DENVER (VO) BELOVED (VO)
dialog: Beloved..She's mine I am Beloved
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
dialog: and she is mine...
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - EARLY EVENING.
text: Beloved, waiting for Sethe to come home, sees her
text: approaching. We hear her thoughts:
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
dialog: I am not separate from her. There is no
text: place where I stop. Her face is my own
dialog: and I want to be there in the place where
text: her face is and to be looking at it
dialog: too...a hot thing..In the beginning I
dialog: could see her. I could not help her
dialog: because the clouds were in the way. But I
dialog: could see her. The shining in her ears. I
dialog: look hard at her so she will know that
dialog: the clouds are in the way..I cannot lose
text: her again. I see her face which is mine.
text: It is the face that was going to smile at
dialog: me in the place where we crouched before
text: I come up out of the blue water. Sethe's
dialog: is the face that left me. Sethe's sees me
text: in her and I see the smile. She is my
text: face smiling at me. It is the face I
dialog: lost. Now we can join..a hot thing.
text: Sethe comes to the waiting Beloved and smiles. She offers her
text: hand and Beloved rises. Denver exits to them and smiles. She
text: extends her hand to Beloved's free hand. The three women
text: stand astride each other, arms around each other's waist as
text: they walk toward the porch...
text: The dusk sunlight creates THREE SHADOWS - three figures
text: holding each other the way Sethe saw the shadows at the
dialog: carnival...Only they weren't Hers, Denver's and Paul's...They
dialog: were Hers, Denver's and Beloved's....
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - EARLY EVENING.
text: The girls rush into the house, and down the hall.
text: Sethe enters. Then turns back to the door.
text: C.U. ; OF SETHE'S HAND LOCKING THE FRONT DOOR AS WE HEAR;
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
scene_heading: I AM BELOVED AND SHE IS MINE.. DENVER (VO)
dialog: SHE IS MINE...
text: OVER THE FOLLOWING CHORUS OF DIALOGUE, A MONTAGE OF
text: IMAGES DEPICTING SETHE, BELOVED AND DENVER CLOSING UP
text: THE HOUSE FROM THE OUTSIDE WORLD - LOWERING SHADES,
text: LOCKING WINDOWS, BARRING DOORS.....
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
scene_heading: TELL ME THE TRUTH.. BELOVED (VO)
scene_heading: CANNOT LOSE HER AGAIN.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: DID YOU COME FROM THE OTHER SIDE.
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
text: YES. I WAS ON THE OTHER SIDE.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: YOU CAME BACK BECAUSE OF ME?
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
dialog: YES.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: YOU NEVER FORGOT ME?
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
dialog: YOUR FACE IS MINE.
speaker_heading: DENVER (VO)
text: DON'T LOVE HER TOO MUCH.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: DO YOU FORGIVE ME?
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
dialog: YOU HURT ME.
speaker_heading: DENVER (VO)
dialog: I WILL PROTECT YOU.
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: WILL YOU STAY?
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
dialog: WHY DID YOU LEAVE ME WHO AM YOU?
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
dialog: I WILL NEVER LEAVE YOU AGAIN.
speaker_heading: DENVER (VO)
dialog: WATCH OUT FOR HER; SHE CAN GIVE YOU
speaker_heading: DREAMS.
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
text: WHERE ARE THE MEN WITHOUT SKIN?
speaker_heading: DENVER (VO)
dialog: THE WHITEFOLK?
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
text: OUT THERE. WAY OFF.
speaker_heading: DENVER (VO)
text: DADDY IS COMING FOR US.
speaker_heading: BELOVED (VO)
dialog: CAN THEY GET IN HERE?
speaker_heading: SETHE (VO)
text: NO. THEY TRIED ONCE BUT I STOPPED THEM.
dialog: THEY WON'T EVER COME BACK...YOU MY BEST
speaker_heading: THING.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - EARLY EVENING.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK FROM THE FRONT DOOR, NOW LOCKED AGAINST THE
text: WORLD, IN A SLOW MOVE....AS WE HEAR A BLEND OF THE THREE
scene_heading: WOMEN'S VOICES - THE OVERLAPPING, HAUNTED THOUGHTS OF THE
dialog: LIVING...
speaker_heading: THREE WOMAN (VO)
dialog: BELOVED..YOU ARE MY SISTER..YOU ARE MY
dialog: DAUGHTER. YOU ARE MY FACE..YOU ARE ME..I
dialog: HAVE FOUND YOU AGAIN..I WAITED FOR
dialog: YOU..YOU ARE MY BELOVED. DON'T LOVE HER
dialog: TOO MUCH...YOU MY BEST THING.. YOU ARE
dialog: MINE..YOU ARE MINE..YOU ARE MINE...
text: BY THE TIME THE CAMERA REACHES BLUESTONE ROAD, THE VOICES ARE
scene_heading: MIXED, UNDECIPHERABLE YET AUDIBLE...
text: ...AUDIBLE TO STAMP PAID, WHO STANDS ON BLUESTONE RD.
text: LISTENING TO THE HAUNTED VOICES OF 124. HE IS FRIGHTENED.
speaker_heading: FADE -OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE- IN:
scene_heading: EXT. CHURCH - DAY.
text: A cold day. Paul D. sits against the church drinking from a
text: bottle when a voice causes him to look up;
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Howdy.
text: Stamp has his hands in his pockets, moving about.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You got any more newspaper in that pocket
dialog: for me, just a waste of time. Ain't
dialog: interested.
text: Stamp sits beside him.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: This is hard for me. But I got to do it.
dialog: Two things I got to say to you. I'm a
dialog: take the easy one first.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: If it's hard for you, might kill me dead.
dialog: (he drinks)
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I come looking for you to ask your
dialog: pardon. Apologize.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You pick any house, any house where
dialog: colored live. Pick any one and you
dialog: welcome to stay there. I'm apologizing
dialog: 'cause they didn't offer to tell you. But
dialog: you welcome anywhere you want to be. My
dialog: house. John and Ella. Miss Lady
dialog: Jones..anybody. You choose. You ain't got
dialog: to sleep in no cellar and I apologize for
dialog: each and every night.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Well I...I did get offered one place but
dialog: I just wanted to be off by myself a
dialog: spell.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Oh yeah. Oh that's load off. I thought
dialog: everybody gone crazy.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Just me.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You planning to do anything about it?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Oh yeah. I got big plans.
text: He drinks from the bottle like an angry, broken man. It stabs
text: at Stamp's heart to see him like this.
text: A WHITE MAN in a horse and wagon drives up the path leading
text: to the church. He leans stops before them and leans forward;
speaker_heading: WHITE MAN
dialog: Hey!!
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: (on his feet)
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: WHITE MAN
dialog: I'm looking for a gal name of Judy. Works
dialog: over by the slaughterhouse. Said she
dialog: lived on Plank Road.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Plank Road. Yes sir. That's up a ways.
dialog: Mile, maybe.
speaker_heading: WHITE MAN
dialog: You don't know her? Judy? Works in the
dialog: slaughterhouse.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: No sir, I don't, but I know Plank Road.
dialog: 'Bout a mile up thataway.
text: Paul drinks from the bottle. The White Man addresses him.
speaker_heading: WHITE MAN
dialog: Look here..There's a cross up there, so I
dialog: guess this here's a church or used to be.
dialog: Seems to me like you ought to show it
dialog: some respect, you follow me?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Yes sir..You right about that. That's
dialog: just what I come over to talk to him
dialog: about. Just that..
text: Paul offers no response. The White Man clicks his tongue and
text: drives off. Stamp breathes a sigh of relief.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You remember your price, Stamp?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Never found out.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I did. Down to the cent.$900. Always
dialog: wondered though what Mrs. Garner got for
dialog: my brother Paul F. Must of been more than
dialog: nine hundred dollars cause she use that
dialog: money for Sweet Home for almost two
dialog: years. But then they hung my other
dialog: brother Paul A. up on a tree so I guess
dialog: he wasn't worth the same..I wonder what
dialog: was Baby Suggs worth? And Halle? I wasn't
dialog: surprised when I found out they tracked
dialog: down Sethe all the way to Cincinatti. Her
dialog: price must have been higher than all of
dialog: us - her being property that reproduced
text: itself without cost. A breeder.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: No use thinking these things now.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Oh but we got to. How we gonna know our
dialog: price in the future? How are children's
dialog: children's children gonna know what they
dialog: cost? Who's gonna tell them? What are
dialog: they gonna pay for us, if we free?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Children ain't gonna need to know that
dialog: kind of thing.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: They'll know. They'll know as soon as
dialog: they born. Cause it's inside us,Stamp.
dialog: It'll be inside them. We'll pass it down.
dialog: Schoolteacher didn't just change the
dialog: outside, he changed the mind..and the
dialog: blood..and what it carries...and what
dialog: it's worth..
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I don't believe that. I won't.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: There was a rooster named Mister down at
dialog: Sweet Home. Last time I saw Halle, with
dialog: that butter all over his face and me with
dialog: an iron bit in my mouth, I saw Mister -
dialog: sitting on a tub. He loved that tub. Like
dialog: king on a throne. He was a hateful thing.
dialog: Bloody and evil..But he was better than
dialog: me. Mister was allowed to be and stay
dialog: what he was. Even if you cooked him you'd
dialog: be cooking a rooster named Mister. But
dialog: wasn't no way I'd ever be Paul D.
dialog: again..Schoolteacher changed me. Was
dialog: never no beating under Mr. Garner.
dialog: Schoolteacher changed that. Why wouldn't
dialog: a man run from that? Why wouldn't a man
dialog: not work, kill, starve, pull out his own
dialog: heart to stop feeling 'stead of feeling
dialog: that? And it strikes me, it's got to be
dialog: cause we were something else. And that
dialog: something was less than a chicken sitting
text: in the sun on a tub.
text: He drinks.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I said I had two things to say to you. I
dialog: only told you one. I have to tell you the
dialog: other.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I don't want to know.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: I was there Paul D...There in the yard.
dialog: When she did it.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What yard? When who-
text: And then Paul realizes he's talking of Sethe.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Jesus.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: It ain't what you think.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You don't know what I think.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: She ain't crazy. She love those children.
text: She was trying to outhurt the hurter's
dialog: all.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Leave off..
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: She was only-
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Stamp, leave off I said! I knew her when
dialog: she was a girl. She scares me and I knew
dialog: her when she was a girl...
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: You ain't scared of Sethe. I don't
dialog: believe you.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: She scares me. I scare me. And that girl
dialog: in her house scares me.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: Who is she? Where she come from?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Don't know. Just shot up one day from a
text: stump.
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
dialog: She what run you off? Not what I told you
dialog: 'bout Sethe?
text: Paul thinks a moment. Then, tears brimming in his eyes:
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Tell me something, Stamp. Tell me this
dialog: one thing. How much is a nigger supposed
dialog: to take?
speaker_heading: STAMP PAID
text: All he can. All he can.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Why? Why? Why? Why? Why?
speaker_heading: FADE OUT;
speaker_heading: FADE IN;
speaker_heading: SPRING.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - MORNING.
text: The sun shines on a warm April day..a day abundant with
dialog: growth and renewed hope.
text: But a shadow appears to be hovering over 124. It looks more
dialog: worn than before...neglected, abused.
text: A broken window...the front door off it's hinge...a front
text: step splintered and dangerous.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - MORNING.
text: Camera opens on the front hall and moves through the house,
text: revealing the same neglect inside;
text: Broken furniture, dusty floors, mess and disorder...
text: Camera enters;
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING.
text: Dirty pans, crusted food on the table, window curtains
text: hanging askew...
text: Sethe sits hunched over, asleep, in a chair against the wall.
text: She wears a dirty, torn dress that hangs on her body - which
text: seems withered, frailer since we last saw her...In her lap
text: lies a clean pretty dress she was in the process of sewing
dialog: when she fell asleep from fatigue.
text: A LOUD CRASH wakes her up. Followed by a LOUD FRUSTRATED
text: YELL. Her face registers fear. She realizes where she is,
text: what time it is...and begins organizing breakfast...
text: She places the dress neatly on the chair, then grabs a cloth
text: and wipes away the crumbs and dirty plates from supper,
text: placing them in the sink...
text: She opens a pantry cupboard to reveal BARE SHELVES except for
text: a SINGLE EGG and a bowl of HOMINY GRAINS about 1/4 full. She
text: searches in a panic for more food - anywhere - opening
text: cabinets, doors - places that never stored food. She realizes
text: there is none left.
scene_heading: INT. DENVER'S ROOM - MORNING.
text: Denver finished dressing. She has been able to maintain a
text: semblance of order about her person and room..
text: But as she steps out into the second floor hallway, we see
text: the same disarray as downstairs...
text: She passes by Baby Sugg's old room and discovers;
text: BELOVED, sprawled across the bed, half naked. Her belly is
text: huge, her body unwashed. She looks, and behaves, like a wild
dialog: animal...
text: A broken lamp lies on the fall - pushed over by her leg as
text: she shifted in bed. Her feet, overhanging the bed, are still
text: touching the bedside table where the lamp sat.
text: She is awake now - making a small hole larger in Baby Sugg's
dialog: old quilt.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You shouldn't be in here?
text: Beloved jolts her head up to Denver. She doesn't like being
text: looked at unawares...
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: What do you know about it? I sleep where
dialog: I want.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: You best leave that quilt alone. That was
text: grandma's quilt.
text: Beloved looks at Denver, then at the quilt - then abruptly
text: tears the hole apart with one strong pull.
text: Triumphant, she gets out of bed and exits, passing Denver;
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: Breakfast ready? I'm hungry!
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING.
dialog: Sethe has prepared all the food that was left and placed it
text: on one plate which she sets on the table. She stands at the
text: stove, with her back to us, picking crusted pieces of food
text: off the bottom of the pan.
text: Beloved moves straight to the chair in front of the place and
text: begins to eat, shovelling the food into her mouth.
text: Denver sees her mother covertly eating the burnt pan crumbs,
text: as she pretends to wash the dishes.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Morning.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Morning, ma'am.
text: Sethe turns, not realizing Denver was there as well. Their
text: eyes meet. Sethe wonders if her daughter saw her eating the
text: pan crumbs. She smiles;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You hungry?
text: Knowing there must be nothing left, Denver answers;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No, ma'am.
text: Sethe looks relieved.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I'll finish those. Why don't you sit
dialog: down?
text: Denver crosses to the dishes, taking the pan from her mother.
text: Sethe nods and crosses to the table, to sit down.
text: But as she sinks into the chair, Beloved kicks it away;
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You don't sit with me!!
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Baby, don't be like that.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You don't sit with me!! I don't sit with
dialog: people who leave me!
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't talk like that. Your mama loves
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I had another dream last night.
dialog: (as she eats)
text: The dead man laying on top of me and I
dialog: had nothing to eat. And the ghosts
dialog: without skin stuck their fingers in me
dialog: and said Beloved in the dark and bitch in
dialog: the light..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Don't say those things. You forget about
dialog: those dreams..
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You gave me the bad dreams. You left me
dialog: behind...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Mama told you - I'd give up my own life,
dialog: every minute, every hour of it to take
dialog: back one of your tears baby...My children
dialog: my best thing. You my best thing!
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: You're weren't nice to me..you didn't
dialog: smile at me..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: That's not true. I told you, I had to get
dialog: you out, make you safe...so's you and me
dialog: could be together on the other side,
dialog: forever..
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Ma'am...
text: No one pays attention to Denver.
speaker_heading: BELOVED
speaker_heading: LIAR!
text: Beloved flings her plate at Sethe, hitting her hard across
dialog: the eye..the plate breaking...
speaker_heading: DENVER
speaker_heading: MAMA!
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Hold back Denver - I'm fine..You..you go
dialog: on upstairs. I'll do the cleaning up.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: But mama..
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Go upstairs I said!!
text: Sethe's harsh tone is only for Denver. Denver exits the
dialog: kitchen, afraid to leave them alone...
text: As she moves from the kitchen, she hears;
speaker_heading: BELOVED (OS)
dialog: I want somethin' sweet.
speaker_heading: SETHE (OS)
dialog: We don't have nothing sweet no more,
dialog: baby.
speaker_heading: BELOVED (OS)
dialog: Not for me, you don't! You don't let me
dialog: eat the pies...
speaker_heading: SETHE (OS)
dialog: No. Since mama lost her job, we don't
dialog: have no more pies..
text: Denver walks up the white stairs...
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGGS' ROOM - DAY.
text: Denver has straightened up her grandmother's room. Cleaned
text: away the broken pieces of the lamp. Gathered the remnants of
dialog: the quilt..
text: She holds the quilt as she sits on the bed, facing the
scene_heading: headboard. SHE REMEMBERS:
speaker_heading: MEMORY:
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGGS' ROOM - A DAY REMEMBERED.
text: Baby Suggs, near death, lying in her bed, chuckles and
dialog: coughs;
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: You mean I never told you about your
dialog: daddy? About the Bodwins who let me rent
dialog: this here house while I do my shoe
dialog: repairing? About your mother's feet, not
dialog: to mention her back? I never told you all
dialog: that?
text: A NINE YEAR OLD DENVER shakes her head.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Is that why you can't walk down the steps
dialog: and out yonder by yourself?
text: Denver can't answer.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Why you never go back to Lady Jone's and
dialog: learn your letters? You liked going there
dialog: I remember. Seeing the other children.
dialog: Then all a sudden, you stop.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: There was a boy there...said mama was a
dialog: jailbird...said he could prove it..
text: Baby Suggs face registers the pain of her granddaughter, hurt
text: by hurtful words.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: My Jesus my...What people won't say. Why
dialog: didn't you come and ask me?
dialog: (Denver shrugs)
dialog: 'Fraid I'll tell ya, huh?
dialog: (Denver looks at her)
dialog: Come here, child..
text: Denver crawls into her arms.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: You got to go sometime. You got to go out
dialog: there by yourself sometime.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: But you said...you said out there, there
dialog: ain't no...what was that word?..no..de-
dialog: fense. No de-fense.
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: There ain't.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Then what do I do?
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: Know it, and go on out the yard. Go on.
scene_heading: END OF MEMORY.
scene_heading: INT. BABY SUGGS' ROOM - DAY.
text: Denver has crawled up and snuggled against the pillow in the
text: same position as when she was nine in her grandma's arms.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - DAY.
text: Denver has changed into a clean, pretty dress and is
text: approaching the stairs when she passes Sethe's room. It's
text: door is open. She looks in..
text: Sethe stands with her back to the door, cleaned up, wearing
text: her best dress and the hat she last wore to the carnival.
text: Denver smiles, hopefully;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Mama?
text: Sethe turns, startled, to reveal - it is BELOVED in Sethe's
text: best clothes...When Beloved sees Denver, she smiles
text: tauntingly and strikes a pose...
speaker_heading: BELOVED
dialog: I look just like her.
text: Disgusted, Denver exits.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY.
text: Denver walks down the stairs, entering the kitchen;
text: Sethe is on her knees, picking up pieces of broken plate. As
text: she moves the skin on her knees bleeds as it scrapes against
dialog: pieces too small to clean.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Mama let me help you.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: NO!...She wanted me to do it.
text: Sethe continues her work, without even looking at Denver.
text: Denver pauses a moment, realizing she is of no use here - but
text: knowing she needs to help her mother somehow.
text: She looks up to the kitchen, where every cupboard door is
text: open revealing empty shelves...SHE EXITS - HEADING FOR THE
speaker_heading: FRONT DOOR.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT HALL - DAY.
scene_heading: C.U. - FRONT DOOR.
text: Denver's hands slowly reaches towards the door lock - and
speaker_heading: OPENS IT.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: Denver opens the door, then pushes the broken screen door off
text: it's hinge. She closes the door behind her.
text: She begins her walk from the porch to the road. The first
dialog: time she's ever gone alone..not knowing what she will face
text: beyond the perimeters of her home.
text: She reaches Bluestone Road and stops. She looks in either
text: direction and sees not a soul. She takes a breath.
text: She begins to walk - to get help.
text: A block from the house, TWO BLACK MEN turn a corner and walk
text: towards her.
text: Denver stops, frightened, not knowing what to do.
text: The TWO BLACK MEN pass her, tipping their hats, saying;
speaker_heading: TWO BLACK MAN
dialog: Morning...Morning..
text: And they walk by. Denver's eyes speak the gratitude she never
text: got her mouth open in time to reply. Heartened by the
text: encounter, she picks up speed.
scene_heading: EXT. LADY JONES' HOUSE - DAY.
text: LADY JONES - a light-skinned black woman with gray eyes and
text: yellow woolly hair - opens the door to find Denver.
speaker_heading: LADY JONES
dialog: Why Denver..Look at you.
text: Denver manages to smile.
speaker_heading: LADY JONES
dialog: It's been so long. It's so nice of you to
dialog: come see me. What brings you?
text: Unfortunately, Denver can't manage anything beyond the smile.
speaker_heading: LADY JONES
dialog: Well, never mind - nobody needs a reason
dialog: to visit. Let me make us some tea. Come
dialog: on.
text: Lady Jones takes her by the hand and leads her inside.
scene_heading: INT. LADY JONES' HOUSE - DAY.
text: Tea things sit on a table between them. Denver eats whatever
text: she can. Lady Jones watches with care and concern.
speaker_heading: LADY JONES
dialog: How's your family, honey?
text: Denver swallows a bite of something with some tea, then;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I want to work, Miss Lady.
speaker_heading: LADY JONES
dialog: Work? Start learnin your letters again?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No. I mean work work.
speaker_heading: LADY JONES
dialog: Well, what can you do?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I can't do anything but I would learn it
dialog: for you if you have a little extra.
speaker_heading: LADY JONES
dialog: Extra?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Food. My mama, she doesn't feel well. I
dialog: couldn't stay away from her too long,
dialog: cause of her condition but I could do
text: chores in the mornings.
speaker_heading: LADY JONES
dialog: Oh baby...I don't know anyone could pay
dialog: anybody anything for work they did
dialog: themselves...But if you all need to eat
dialog: until your mother's well, all you have to
dialog: do is say so...We have a church committee
dialog: invented so nobody had to go hungry.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No..No that won't do...
text: Lady Jones can sense something far more serious is going on.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD./ KITCHEN - DAY.
text: Denver brings four eggs, some rice and some tea onto the
text: kitchen table.
text: Sethe's eyes well up. She looks at Denver as if for the first
text: time. Her face an expression of gratitude. Suddenly;
speaker_heading: BELOVED (OS)
dialog: RAAAIN!!! RAAAAIN!
text: Sethe and Denver rush out of the kitchen to see;
text: beloved running through the rooms, clawing at her throat,
dialog: causing it to bleed...
speaker_heading: SETHE
speaker_heading: BABY!
text: Sethe and Denver rush towards into the keeping room. Sethe
text: stumbles over a chair to get to Beloved, kneeling on the
text: floor, ripping at her own neck...
text: Denver gets her from behind and Sethe grabs her from the
text: front, pinning her down - trying to stop her from hurting
text: herself. Beloved screams and strikes out at Sethe, pulling
text: her hair, clawing at her as well...
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: Denver exits the house because she sees something unusual in
dialog: the yard;
scene_heading: POV - THE STUMP;
text: On the same stump that Beloved first appeared, sits A BASKET
text: OF EGGS. Denver crosses to it, lifts it and a PAPER flutters
text: to the ground. She reads it;
scene_heading: M. LUCILLE WILLIAMS...
scene_heading: EXT. M. LUCILLE WILLIAMS HOUSE - DAY.
text: Denver returns the empty basket to M. Lucille Williams.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: M. LUCILLE
speaker_heading: WILLIAMS
dialog: Your welcome..
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: Beloved eats ravenously from a bowl of white beans. Sethe
text: sits in the corner, as if waiting to serve her...
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY
text: Upon the stump, sits a plate of cold rabbit meat, which
text: Denver brings inside.
scene_heading: INT. GRACE'S HOUSE - DAY.
text: Denver is returning a bowl to Grace, a friendly woman.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: No, darling. That's not my bowl. Mine's
dialog: got a blue ring around it..Would you like
dialog: to come in a spell?
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: Beloved sleeps curled up on the kitchen floor after eating -
text: her mouth still dirty from the meal...
text: Sethe, unwashed, her hair uncombed, sits in her corner chair.
text: She is trying to mend a torn dress.
text: Denver eats a little from the latest neighborhood gift. She
text: hears her mother mumbling to herself like a madwoman.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Nobody..no sir..that's right..nobody's
dialog: going be doing that..nobody going be
dialog: writing my daughter's characteristics on
dialog: the animal side..no sir..I don't
dialog: care..ain't laying that down..no sir. I
dialog: refuse..that's right..that's right...
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Mama...Mama she's asleep. Why don't you
dialog: eat something.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: She likes this dress...
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: But you'll hurt your eyes doin it there.
dialog: Come sit at the table.
text: Sethe considers this. She rises cautiously, then sits at the
text: table. Denver rises and gets her some food, placing it before
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Please mama, eat something...
text: Sethe nods...Denver is getting more and more frightened of
dialog: losing her mother completely...Instead of protecting Beloved
text: from Sethe, she must protect her mother from Beloved.
scene_heading: EXT. THE BODWIN'S HOUSE; BACK DOOR - DAY.
text: A white family home in a white Ohio neighborhood.
text: JANEY WAGON, a benevolent black servant woman, opens the back
dialog: door for Denver.
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: May I come in?
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: What you want?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I want to see Mr. and Mrs. Bodwin.
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: Miss Bodwin. They brother and sister,
dialog: darlin.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: What you want'em for?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I'm looking for work. I was thinking they
dialog: might know of some.
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: You Baby Sugg's kin, ain't you?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Yes ma'am.
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: I heard your mother took sick, that so?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Yes ma'am..
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: Well, come on in. You letting in flies.
scene_heading: INT. THE BODWIN'S HOUSE - DAY.
text: The house is filled with books and pearl white lamps and
text: glass cases filled with glistening things.
text: Denver pushes her feet into the soft blue carpet as she sits
dialog: with Janey.
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: You know what? I've been here since I was
dialog: fourteen and I remember like yesterday
dialog: when Baby Suggs, holy, came here and sat
dialog: right where you are. Whiteman name of
dialog: Garner brought her. He and Mr. Bodwin
dialog: were good friends. That's how she got
dialog: that house you all live in. Other things
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Yes ma'am.
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: I never went to those woodland services
dialog: but she was always nice to me. Always.
dialog: Never be another like her.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I miss her.
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: Bet you do. Everybody miss her. That was
dialog: a good woman...Well, I don't know whether
dialog: the Bodwins think it or not but they sure
dialog: could use some extra help.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: (hopeful)
dialog: Ya think?
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: They getting older now and I can't take
dialog: care of 'em like I used to. More and more
dialog: they keep asking me to sleep over night.
dialog: Now, I don't want to quit these people
dialog: but they can't have all my days and
dialog: nights too. I got my own family needs me.
dialog: It'll take some convincing but maybe you
dialog: could come after supper - take care of
dialog: your mama during the day, then earn a
dialog: little something at night, how's that?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Fine. But what would I do at night?
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: Be here. In case.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: In case of what?
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: In case the house burn down or bad
dialog: weather slops the roads so bad I can't
dialog: get here on time or late guests needed
text: cleaning up after. Anything.
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Don't ask me what whitefolks need at
dialog: night.
text: During Janey's lines, Denver looks about the house imagining
text: herself here at night...her eyes happen upon A STATUE OF A
text: BLACK BOY on his knees, his head thrown back farther than a
text: head could go, his mouth wide open like a cup and filled with
text: money for delivery tips. On the pedestal are the words' AT YO
speaker_heading: SERVICE;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: They good whitefolks?
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: Oh yeah. They good. Can't say they ain't
dialog: good. I wouldn't trade them for another
dialog: pair, tell you that. But you come back in
dialog: a few days - give me a chance to lead'em
dialog: to it. All right?
text: Denver nods, beaming gratefully - so gratefully that no words
text: come, only tears... Janey reaches for Denver's hand and holds
dialog: it warmly;
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: What is it, child? What's the trouble
dialog: with Sethe?
text: Denver looks at her and we know she needs to tell someone.
scene_heading: INT. ELLA'S HOUSE - DAY.
dialog: Ella has gathered all the women of the town for a meeting
dialog: including Lady Jones, Janey Wagon, M. Lucille Williams,
dialog: Grace;
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: But is it really the daughter, Janey? The
dialog: killed one?
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: That what she say.
speaker_heading: M. LUCILLE
speaker_heading: WILLIAMS
dialog: How they know it's her?
speaker_heading: ELLA
text: It's sitting there. Sleeps, eats and
text: raises hell. Whipping Sethe every day.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I'll be. A baby?
speaker_heading: JANEY
dialog: No. Grown now. The age it would have been
dialog: had it lived.
speaker_heading: GRACE
text: In the flesh. And whipping her.
speaker_heading: M. LUCILLE
speaker_heading: WILLIAMS
dialog: Guess she had it coming a little.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Nobody got that coming.
speaker_heading: M. LUCILLE
speaker_heading: WILLIAMS
dialog: But Ella- you can't just up and kill your
dialog: children.
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: No, and the children can't just up and
dialog: kill the mama. What's fair ain't
dialog: necessarily right...
dialog: (the women listen)
dialog: Now you all know how I felt about the
dialog: whole thing. I know the rage Sethe felt
dialog: in that shed that day. We all do. But
dialog: what I could not understand, and still
dialog: don't, was her reaction to it. Prideful.
dialog: Too damn complicated for a black woman in
dialog: her position before God. But whatever she
dialog: done, I don't like the idea of past
dialog: errors taking possession of the present.
dialog: I don't cotton to sin moving in on a
text: house, unleashed and sassy. Every day
dialog: life takes enough, takes all a woman has.
dialog: "Sufficient unto the day is evil thereof"
dialog: and nobody needs more. Nobody needs a
text: grown up evil sitting at a table with a
dialog: grudge. As long as that ghost showed
dialog: itself from a ghostly place, I respected
dialog: it. But once it take on flesh and come
dialog: into this world, well, the shoe's on the
dialog: other foot now. I don't mind a little
dialog: communication between worlds. But this
dialog: here's an invasion.
dialog: The women agree.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Should we pray?
speaker_heading: ELLA
dialog: Uh-huh. First. Then we got to get down to
dialog: business.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD.: KITCHEN - DAYS LATER.
text: Denver comes down the stairs, entering the kitchen.
text: Sethe, worn out, looking more beaten and ravaged than before,
text: stands at the sink with an ICE PICK chopping up ice. Denver
text: speaks to her, but she does not turn or acknowledge her.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Mama?....Mama I'm going out..
dialog: (no response)
dialog: Mama, I got a job. Working over at the
text: Bodwins at night. Mr. Bodwin coming over
dialog: now to pick me up on his way back from
dialog: town. I'll be staying there nights and
dialog: coming back here for the daytime. We'll
dialog: have some money, mama..Mama?
text: Sethe continues her action as if hypnotized. Denver
text: approaches her from behind and whispers softly;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I'm going help you, mama. Don't you give
dialog: up yet.
text: Denver touches her gently, but Sethe acts as if she hears and
text: feels nothing. Denver exits.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - LATE THAT DAY.
text: Denver is sitting on the stump waiting for Mr. Bodwin when
dialog: she hears;
text: THIRTY WOMEN, gathered together, walking up Bluestone Rd.
text: towards 124, SINGING A HOLY SONG;
text: Denver is amazed by the sight as the women position
text: themselves right in front of 124 - armed with bibles,
text: crucifixes and whatever other symbols of heavenly power they
dialog: could find.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD; THE KEEPING ROOM - DAY.
text: Sethe is rubbing a naked Beloved's forehead with a cool cloth
text: filled with ice, when the two women hear the singing.
text: Beloved rises first and moves to the window to see.
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: The women continue singing.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FURTHER DOWN BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: MR. BODWIN, sitting on a wagon pulled by a horse, is riding
text: toward 124 when he hears the singing as well.
text: WE NOTICE THAT MR. BODWIN IS WEARING A HAT SIMILAR TO THE ONE
text: SCHOOLTEACHER WORE on that fateful day.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
dialog: The women continue singing as:
text: Sethe and Beloved, her belly as big as a pregnant woman's,
text: exit the house.
text: The women are stunned by the sight and slightly confused by
dialog: the lack of fear between the women.
text: Sethe is holding Beloved's hand. Beloved is smiling brightly
text: at the beautiful singing.
text: Denver looks to her mother;
text: Tears run down Sethe's face but she is not crying. The sound
text: of the women's voices wash over her like a baptism. She looks
text: to all the women, faces she remembers, faces she has missed
text: although up until this moment was not conscious of missing.
text: Then, Sethe looks beyond the women and sees:
scene_heading: MR. BODWIN APPROACHING IN HIS WAGON. SHE SEES MR. BODWIN
text: WEARING A HAT THAT LOOKS LIKE SCHOOLTEACHERS.
text: Sethe's expression turns to fear, then rage. In her ravaged
dialog: mind, she thinks it is Schoolteacher coming back...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No...No, he's not coming into my yard. He
dialog: not taking my best thing...No..
text: She releases Beloved's hand and moves forward...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No...no...no..
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Mama?
text: She passes Denver, feeling for the ICE PICK IN HER APRON.
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: No...NO..NO..NOOOOOOOOOOOO!
text: As Mr. Bodwin reaches the thirty women who separate him from
text: 124. HIS EYES FOCUS IN WONDER ON THE NAKED BELOVED AS;
text: SETHE RUNS TOWARDS HIM AND THE WOMEN, HER HAND EXTENDED
text: HOLDING THE ICE PICK..
speaker_heading: DENVER
scene_heading: MAMA...NOOOOOOO!
text: DENVER RUNS AFTER HER. SETHE REACHES THE WOMEN AND LUNGES FOR
text: BODWIN BUT THE WOMEN SEIZE HER, CREATING A HILL OF BLACK
scene_heading: PEOPLE. SETHE RISING TO THE TOP, HER HAND EXTENDED. DENVER
text: REACHING HER FROM BEHIND, PULLING HER BACK AND PUNCHING HER
text: OUT COLD AS THE BODIES FALL AROUND THEM....
text: Beloved watches from the house - watches Sethe attack and
text: defend with the ice pick. And something within her is
text: resolved. For a moment, we see a calm spirit instead of a
text: wild animal. And a tear upon her face..
text: Then, just as quickly, she sprints around the side of the
text: house and disappears from view.
text: The Women try to help Sethe as Denver cries for her mother.
text: Mr. Bodwin looks on stunned.
text: WIDE ANGLE - OF A NAKED BLACK WOMAN WITH A FULL BELLY RUNNING
text: THROUGH AN OPEN FIELD, REACHING THE WOODS THEN DISAPPEARING
text: INTO THE TREES......
speaker_heading: FADE OUT;
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. RICHMOND ST. - DAY. WEEKS LATER.
text: Paul D. is on his way to work when he sees;
text: A poised, confident Denver walking in the opposite direction.
text: She spots him and smiles;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Good morning, Paul D.
text: Paul is clearly impressed by the sight of her.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Well, is it now? How you getting along?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Don't pay to complain.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You on your way home?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No. Got me an afternoon job at the shirt
dialog: factory. Figure between that and my night
dialog: work at the Bodwins I might be able to
dialog: put something away for me and mama.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: They treating you right over at the
dialog: Bodwins?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: More than all right. Miss Bodwin, she
dialog: teach me stuff..Book stuff. She says I
dialog: might go to Oberlin. She's experimenting
dialog: on me.
text: Paul smiles - wanting to warn her but deciding not to spoil
dialog: the possibilities that lay before her.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Your mother all right?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: No. Not a bit all right. Hasn't gotten
text: out of bed since that day.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You think I should stop by? Think she'd
dialog: welcome it?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I don't know. I think I've lost my
dialog: mother, Paul D.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: That girl...You know, Beloved...
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: She gone like they say?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Haven't seen her since that day. Ella
text: thinks she might be waiting in the woods
dialog: for another chance but..I don't think so.
dialog: Mama thinks she's gone for good. Says she
dialog: can feel it.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You think she sure 'nough your sister?
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: At times. At other times I think she
dialog: was...more. But who would know that
dialog: better than you. I mean, you sure 'nough
dialog: you her.
text: She levels her eyes at him and he knows what she means.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Well, if you want my opinion...
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: I don't. I have my own.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You grown.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Yes sir
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Well, good luck with the job.
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: Thank you.
text: They pass each other until Denver turns back;
speaker_heading: DENVER
dialog: And Paul D...you don't have to stay 'way,
dialog: but be careful how you talk to my mama,
dialog: hear?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I will.
text: Paul watches her walk away. He watches as a YOUNG BLACK MAN
text: runs towards her shouting;
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: Hey, Miss Denver..Wait up!
text: He watches as the two young people, the future, walk
dialog: together.
scene_heading: INT. 124 BLUESTONE RD. - DAY.
text: Paul enters the house and hears HUMMING. He walks towards the
text: keeping room, whose door is ajar;
scene_heading: INT. KEEPING ROOM - DAY.
text: Sethe lies in bed with the remnants of Baby Sugg's quilt over
text: her, as she hums her melody and looks out of the window.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sethe?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (turns to him)
dialog: Paul D.
text: She looks like she's dying.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Aw, Sethe.
text: He approaches her.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: You shaved.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Yeah. Look bad?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: No, You looking good.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Devil's confusion. What's this I hear
dialog: about you not getting out of bed?
dialog: (no response)
dialog: I saw Denver. She tell you?
speaker_heading: SETHE
text: She comes in the daytime. She still with
dialog: me, my Denver.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: You got to get up from here, girl.
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: I'm tired, Paul. So tired. I have to rest
dialog: a while.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (getting upset, shouts)
dialog: Don't you die on me!! This is Baby Suggs
dialog: quilt. Is that what you planning!?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Oh, I don't have no plans. No plans at
dialog: all.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Look - Denver be here in the day. I be
dialog: here in the night. I'm a take care of
dialog: you, you hear? Starting now.
text: Sethe looks at him - a long look - and sees in him that
dialog: thing, that blessedness, "that makes him the kind of man who
text: can walk into a house and make women cry, make women tell him
dialog: things they could only tell each other".
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What, baby?
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: (cries)
text: She left me. She's gone again.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Aw, girl. Don't cry...Me and you, we got
dialog: more yesterday than anybody. We need some
dialog: kind of tomorrow...
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: She was my best thing.
text: Paul leans down and takes her hand, entwining his fingers
dialog: into hers...
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You your best thing, Sethe. You are.
text: Sethe smiles, with tears in her eyes, looking almost
dialog: surprised;
speaker_heading: SETHE
dialog: Me?...Me?
scene_heading: EXT. THE CLEARING - A DAY OUT OF TIME.
text: A beautiful, sunny day. The clearing is full. Everyone looks
text: bright and hopeful. Dressed in bright, summer clothes...
text: A robust Baby Suggs is on her rock giving her best Call, as
text: camera pans the crowd of faces eager to believe ....
speaker_heading: BABY SUGGS
dialog: ..The only grace we can have, is the
dialog: grace we can imagine. If you cannot see
dialog: it, you will not have it...Here, in this
dialog: place, we are flesh. Flesh that weeps,
text: laughs, dances on bare feet in the grass.
dialog: Love it. Love it hard. Yonder they do not
dialog: love your flesh. They despise it. They
dialog: flay it. O, my people, they do not love
dialog: your hands. Those they only use, tie,
dialog: bind, chop off and leave empty, Love your
text: hands. Love them. Raise them up and kiss
dialog: them. Touch others with them, put them
dialog: together, stroke them on your face 'cause
dialog: they don't love that either. You got to
dialog: love it. You. Yonder out there, they
dialog: ain't in love with your moth. They will
dialog: see it broken and break it again. What
dialog: you say out of it, they will not heed.
dialog: What you scream from it they do not hear.
dialog: No, they don't love your mother. You got
dialog: to love it. And the feet that need to
dialog: rest and to dance. The backs that needs
dialog: support. The shoulders that need arms,
dialog: strong arms I'm telling you! O my people,
dialog: out yonder they don't love your neck
dialog: unnoosed and straight. So love your neck;
dialog: put a hand on it, grace it, stroke it and
dialog: hold it up. Love all your inside parts,
dialog: love 'em..and the beating heart, love
text: that too. More than eyes or feet. More
dialog: than lungs that have yet to draw free
dialog: air, love your heart. For this is the
dialog: prize.
text: And with her twisted, broken old body BABY SUGGS BEGINS TO
text: DANCE AND TWIRL UP ON HER ROCK.
text: And the crowd gives her music, SINGING IN FOUR PART HARMONY.
text: CAMERA PANS THE CROWD OF BEAUTIFUL FACES singing together.
text: Among the crowd, we see FAMILIAR FACES...
text: WE SEE THE WOMEN WHO SANG AT 124...
text: WE STAMP PAID, ELLA, JOHN, and LADY JONES...
text: AND WE SEE SETHE, SURROUNDED BY ALL HER CHILDREN.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
