dialog: Beowulf & Grendel
dialog: Written by
dialog: Andrew Rai Berzins
dialog: Tenth draft - July 12/04
text: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. OCEAN BEACH / NORTHERN EUROPE [500 A.D.] -- DUSK 1
text: CAMERA swoops along a shimmering black sand beach, mountains
dialog: rising in the further distance...
text: FINDING: in the middle distance: EIGHT WARRIORS galloping on
text: HORSEBACK, armed with spears, swords, shields, netting,
text: torches.
text: DOGS race along at their sides.
text: At the head of the troop rides a grizzled mid-aged WARRIOR,
text: grimly determined, his face obscured by his battle mask.
text: The warriors race on, riding to beat the devil home.
scene_heading: EXT. MEADOW -- DUSK 2
text: With the sun gone below a ridge of barren hills, the darkness
text: is quickly retaking the ground, bleeding out from the
text: crevices of rock, the moss, a stream twisting through the
dialog: emerald meadow...
text: ++.in the middle distance of which GOATS and SHEEP amble
text: about.
text: Beyond them, rocky outcrops give way to a dark and shifting
text: sea... and the low RUMBLE of surf...
text: Into the foreground there slowly shifts: a huge, stooped
text: FIGURE. Erect, he'd be nearly seven feet tall, and is twice
text: the mass of an average man, covered in hair - much of it
text: greying. Immense arms lead to massive hands, the tough nails
dialog: tools for a brutal existence.
text: His face - or what can be made of it in the falling light -
text: has a leatherish quality. It also betrays age, as does a
text: noticeable limp: this is a gigantic nocturnal primate - a
dialog: troll who has seen better days.
text: He scans the meadow, puzzled. He CLUCKS his tongue a couple
text: of times... GRUNTS out a name of some sort...
speaker_heading: FATHER
dialog: Grrruhnellll....
text: He twists his head to one side, raises his nose and sniffs
text: the wind... wary for a moment... then the moment passes...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 2.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 2
text: He shuffles forward a few more steps, still searching, worry
text: now edging in. He CLUCKS his tongue again --
text: --.and he's slammed from behind by something --
text: »-.or, as it turns out, someone: his small child - GRENDEL -
text: who promptly tumbles past his father, CACKLING at the prank.
text: From the distance comes the sound of a DOG BARKING.
text: The father snatches at Grendel. He misses, tries again, and
text: it becomes a little chase.
text: Finally the father scoops up Grendel and berates him in with
text: several low guttural words - a primitive tongue with echoes
dialog: of Old Norse.
text: Grendel responds by grabbing his father's nose and twisting
text: it, laughing. The father then laughs too.
text: But once again the father grows wary. Holding Grendel close,
text: he sniffs the air. More BARKING DOGS....
text: ...then the far-off SHOUTS of HUMANS.
text: The father urgently swings Grendel up onto his shoulder, and -
text: fear overcoming his infirmity - with great strides he crosses
text: back out of the meadow toward the rock outcrops.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH -- CONTINUOUS 3
text: The troop of warriors race along...
text: +-+-till the lead warrior pulls up, eyeing the rocks to either
text: side. He sniffs the breeze, considers...
text: .--the others waiting on his judgement...
text: ..-then he abruptly jerks his horse toward a break in the
text: rocks, leading up into a meadow...
text: ...the other warriors following.
scene_heading: EXT. WILDS -- CONTINUOUS 4
text: Grendel's father is moving as best he can... but one hip is
text: giving him trouble, and his wind is quickly going on him...
text: Grendel stares back over his shoulder, his face now betraying
text: the same fear his father feels.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 3.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 4
text: They scramble over rock, twist along moss paths, then down
text: into a stream... then up the bank, up past massive
text: boulders... the sound of the DOGS and HORSES edging ever
text: closer.
scene_heading: EXT. SHORELINE / CLIFFS -- CONTINUOUS 5
text: The two trolls emerge into view of the sea. Grendel's father
text: rushes up to the cliff edge, and verbally/gesturally directs
dialog: Grendel to descend.
text: Grendel starts down a few feet before turning and meeting his
text: father's fierce gaze. He gestures to Grendel to continue
text: down. Grendel does, but steals a glance back up to find...
text: ..-his father turning to meet their pursuers. Grendel climbs
text: back up to the cliffs' edge to see...
text: ...the warriors charging in on horseback. Several dismount
text: and take positions on the periphery.
text: The lead warrior continues forward. Now we see he's
dialog: significantly older than the rest; there are years of these
text: sort of battles in him. And yet the fire is still in his eye
text: - even as it meets the troll's.
text: The other warriors hold back, waiting on their leader's move.
text: The troll scowls back, a snarl escaping.
text: The lead warrior, unfazed, even spurred on by the challenge,
text: charges forward and flings a leather bag at Grendel's father.
text: The bag - hitting - bursts apart, throwing liquid pitch over
text: him. As other warriors rush forward with torches...
text: ...Grendel twists back down into the rocks, terrified.
text: There come the SOUNDS of a vicious FIGHT above.... the ROARS
text: of his father... the warriors' SHOUTS and the BARKING/WAILING
text: of dogs... the NEIGHING, HUFFING and STOMPING of the
dialog: horses...
text: A dog flies past, over the cliff to the rocks below...
text: Then a sudden WHOOSH... a terrifying SCREECH...
text: ...and Grendel's father staggers off the cliff, stuck with
text: spears, wrapped in netting, and engulfed in FLAMES.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 4.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 5
text: His body twists down, and SLAPS onto the rocks below, where
text: it lies motionless, burning... until the first wave washes
text: in, extinguishing the flames.
text: Grendel gasps as...
text: ...-TORCHES drop through the air on either side, continuing
text: down to the rocks below - the warriors seeking confirmation
dialog: of the kill.
text: Their CHEERS of celebration wash down over Grendel, and he
text: looks up to see...
text: ...the lead warrior peering down into the dark, a spear
text: raised ready to throw, his figure silhouetted against the
text: torch-lights.
dialog: What Grendel does not see...
text: .--is the warrior nudge up his battle-mask...
text: REVEALING: the wild battle-eyes of the Danish king - HROTHGAR
text: [50]. His ferocious gaze softens, turns to pugzlement.
text: Hrothgar, squinting, makes out...
text: «--the tiny troll figure of Grendel nestled in the rocks.
text: Hrothgar is clearly torn. He gulps in a breath. His hand
text: tightens in grip on his spear, his mind racing.
text: Grendel buries his face in his arms.
text: Finally, Hrothgar's puzzlement shifts to decision. He wipes
text: the troll-blood from his eyes. Pity overtakes him. His
text: spear-arm drops... and he turns away.
text: Grendel, burrowed into the rocks, steals a glance up to
dialog: find...
text: ..-the warrior gone from the cliffside, the sounds of the
dialog: hunt-party diminishing.
text: But the sound is replaced by Grendel's own sobs.
scene_heading: EXT. SHORELINE -- DAY 6
text: Grendel comes warily down the stony beach, gaze sweeping
text: about in search, hands dragging an old sword.
text: Finally his gaze falls on what he's been searching for...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 5.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 6
text: ...the CORPSE of his father washed up in the rocks. He
text: fights back sobs, and struggles to dislodge it... but the
dialog: corpse is too heavy.
text: He resolves himself, then raises the sword, and swings it
text: down repeatedly onto the corpse's neck.
text: Exhausted and crying, he takes up the severed head - a great
text: weight for him - and cradles it in his small arms.
text: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. GRENDEL'S CAVE [15 YEARS LATER] -- EVENING 7
text: ON: the desiccated HEAD of Grendel's father, positioned in a
text: erude alcove-shrine, on either side of which small smudges
dialog: burn...
dialog: The fires have somewhat preserved the head: the eye sockets
text: are empty, and the flesh is gone from the face, but the skin
text: has dried and tightened, the long wild hair remains, matted
text: over and beyond the great brow, the yellow teeth clenched in
dialog: eternal grin/grimace...
text: Sea-shells, stones, and dried flowers are placed around the
text: head.
text: REVEAL: Grendel, now an adult, squatting down near a larger
text: fire-bed of embers, gaze fixed on his father's head... his
dialog: own thoughts clearly melancholic...
text: A breath rolls through him like a shudder. He rises...
text: ..-revealing his stature: he's huge, with powerful limbs, the
text: scale of his father but with none of the infirmity. He
text: starts up a rocky path toward the faint light of the cave
text: entrance...
scene_heading: EXT. GRENDEL'S CAVE / SHORE CLIFFS -- EVENING 8
text: Grendel emerges out onto the cliff edge, and stares down at
text: the crashing water on the rocks below...
text: +--menace rising in his glassy-gaze, he squats down...
text: ...snatches up a fist-sized rock and smashes himself once in
dialog: the forehead...
text: Blood streams down from his brow and across his face. He
text: licks the blood as it reaches his lip. Grunts a bitter
text: SIGH/LAUGH at his wretched state. Blinks through the blood
dialog: at...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 6.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 8
text: ...the sun edging down into the sea.
text: He wipes the blood over his cheeks, chin, brow - a battle-
dialog: mask in the making.
scene_heading: EXT. ABOVE THE DANISH VILLAGE / PERIMETER -- EVENING 9
text: With the light fading from the sky...
text: ...the sounds of a CELEBRATION... LAUGHTER, MUSIC... drift up
dialog: from the village... *
text: A CROWD of VILLAGERS circle about... *
text: «+-SNORRI [60s] who lifts a blood-stained pine-branch from *
text: the opened chest of a slaughtered ram lying on a rock. *
text: Hrothgar [60s now] goes down on one knee before him. Though
dialog: greying, he wears his added years as well as any warrior-king
dialog: could.
text: Snorri touches Hrothgar's forehead with the blood. *
speaker_heading: SNORRI *
dialog: Hrothgar, much-loved King of the
dialog: Danes, under Odin's eye I blood you
dialog: lucky on all paths that leave this
dialog: hall.
text: A CHEER from the crowd.
text: Hrothgar rises, smiling, and turns to his grand hall.
text: His radiant wife - WEALHTHEOW [40s] - hands him a clay jug.
text: Hrothgar pulls the cap from it with his teeth and pours wine
text: out across the steps. As it splashes down...
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: May all those who cross these steps
dialog: find a happy heart!
text: More CHEERS rise up from the villagers...
text: Hrothgar draws his sword and smashes the jug, sealing the
dialog: blessing...
text: .»..and as the villagers line up to be - in turn - "blooded"
text: by Snorri, Snorri bursting out in resonant SONG... *
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 10
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 7.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 9
text: REVEAL THE LS POV: as that of Grendel, rising over a rock in
text: the foreground. His expression is solemn. He sniffs the air
dialog: deeply.
text: A shudder runs through him at the sound of the song... the
text: rising of a mission in his gaze and in his blood.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / PERIMETER WALL -- NIGHT 10
text: With some RAUCOUS drunken ROARS and HOWLS echoing through the
text: village... and - at some distance - REVELLERS making their
text: swerving way back to the longhouse...
text: .-.-a lone torch-lit GUARD moves along a boulder ridge, spear
text: in hand, grinning at the drunks. But then an ANIMAL HOWL
text: rises rom the darkness beyond, to which he turns...
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Come near here, y'shitbrain wolves,
dialog: you'll get a mouth of spear.
text: There's movement in the stones below, just beyond the
text: boulders, just out of sight. The guard peers over.
text: Nothing for several beats... but then a strange BREATH-LIKE
dialog: sound on the wind...
speaker_heading: GRENDEL
dialog: Speee-arrrr...
text: The guard takes the torch from the holder in the stone, holds
text: it out into the darkness, trying to figure what's below.
text: Several small stones hit him in the face, and he jerks back
text: in surprise.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: (wary mutter)
dialog: What the...
text: The guard throws the torch down into the darkness.
text: Something large deftly shifts out of sight to one side.
text: There's a scratching of nail on stone as something climbs up
text: the boulder.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Olaf?! Pal?!
text: The guard swings his spear toward the sound, but without his
text: torch he can't see much. Then, again, there's silence.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 10
dialog: 11
dialog: 12
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 8.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 10
text: The guard moves to the edge, his spear high, ready to stab...
text: -.. but from the side a large dark LIMB swings out, the hand
text: slapping the guard in the face. The thin CRACK of bone
text: snapping.
text: The guard drops, shudders briefly, then his body goes still.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 11
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- MORNING 12
text: LIGHT bleeds in with the CREAKY opening of the huge door,
text: REVEALING:
text: ...the night's carnage: broken benches, the BODIES of several
text: slain warriors... blood splashed about...
text: ANGLE BACK ON: Hrothgar standing, stunned, in the doorway,
text: with UNFERTH [30], a sturdy and well-scarred Danish warrior,
text: to one side and AESCHERE [late 60s], Hrothgar's peer, to the
text: other. Hrothgar, with Aeschere at this side, determinedly
text: edges forward over the slippery wood...
text: ....Unferth - hungover and bloodstained - an awkward step
text: behind.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Where were you when all this --
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: (awkward)
dialog: Asleep. I'd... I'd... had some
dialog: beers.
speaker_heading: AESCHERE
dialog: No others saw what happened?
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: None who can speak.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (through his teeth)
dialog: What fucking thing would dare --
text: But his words end, and his steps slow.
text: Hrothgar, stunned, crosses the floor past the dead fire-pits
text: to a slumped FIGURE on the throne at the far end of the room.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 12
dialog: 13
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 9.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 12
text: It's the guard from the wall, one hand clutching his spear as
text: in readiness... his hood hanging over his face.
text: Hrothgar edges up, takes up a spear and, with its point,
text: lifts the guard's hood - gasps - and jerks back.
text: Rolling off the shoulders - where his head should be - is a
text: bloody head-sized stone. It hits the floor with a great
text: THUMP, and rolls across it, coming to a stop at Hrothgar's
text: feet.
text: ON: Hrothgar's face, his horror giving way to a grim
text: realization.
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
text: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. OPEN WATER / ISOLATED BEACH -- DAY 13
text: CAMERA slowly sweeps over sea-water... coming to rest...
text: ON: BEOWULF [30]... or at least his head, seeming to eerily
text: bob on a plank of wood on the surface of the water.
text: The odd wave splashes over him... his eyes closed, face
text: betraying no life... then suddenly a long SIGH of exhaustion -
dialog: and relief...
text: His eyes flicker open, he blinks, and slowly edges in toward
text: land, his neck, shoulders, torso inch-by-inch revealed...
text: ..-watched by a lone FISHERMAN on the beach mending his nets.
text: Beowulf, delirious, pushes aside the wooden plank, limps up
text: onto the sand, trailing seaweed, his shins and thighs
text: burdened by lamprey EELS attached to his flesh...
text: He wears a battle-weathered leather tunic, shredded tweed
text: pants, a baldric-strap tying his sheathed sword to his
dialog: back...
text: His body, though battered and scarred, is obviously one of
text: great power. His wobbly-kneed stagger still manages the
text: grace of the warrior/athlete returning from a struggle which
dialog: nearly killed him.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: G'day.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 13
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 10.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 13
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: G'day. I'd owe much to know my
dialog: whereabouts.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Fish Beach... but likely I'm the
dialog: only one who names it that.
dialog: (off Beowulf's look / wry)
dialog: Where I get fish.
text: The fisherman goes to his fire-pit and takes from it a
dialog: smoking stick.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I mean who's your king?
text: The fisherman looks back across the land, considers it...
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Well... y'know how these things go.
text: As he talks, he indicates various directions and movements
dialog: with his stick...
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Late as a couple years ago I think
dialog: it was a Hathobard. Swedes rolled
dialog: in, pushed them out... Hathobards
dialog: came back, pushed them out - then
dialog: they got pushed out by Geats.
dialog: Wulfings showed up...
dialog: (beat / sighs)
dialog: Sig Skullsplitter of the Hathobards
dialog: was spilling blood this way last
dialog: spring. But then he got sick from
dialog: sleeping with the sheep. Swedes
dialog: came back...
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (hint of worry)
dialog: It's Swedish land then?
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: I wouldn't bet a fish on that.
dialog: Hygelac the Geat then lay a beating
dialog: on the Swedes...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I had a boatload of Wulfings wash
text: up. But they were just corpses.
dialog: Stunk to Valhalla.
dialog: (MORE)
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 13
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 11.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 13
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Had to let'm dry out a week then I
dialog: put the whole little crowd to flame
dialog: - not knowin what they died of, eh.
dialog: (beat / shrugs)
dialog: Yeah, I'll be guessing this is Geat
dialog: land for now.
text: Beowulf's relief is apparent.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN (CONT'D) *
dialog: Sleep with that, canya?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Being a Geat...
dialog: (nods)
dialog: I'm Beowulf. *
text: By Beowulf's look, it's clear he expects his name to *
text: register, but - just as clearly - it doesn't. *
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Beowulf... what, the Eel Meal?
text: The fisherman nods to Beowulf's eel-infested shins. Beowulf
text: looks down, gets dizzy and drops to the sand where he sits.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: You've not had another wash up...?
dialog: Like myself... name of Breca?
text: The fisherman shakes his head. As Beowulf talks, the
text: fisherman methodically starts poking and singeing the eels
text: with the stick: they unclasp from Beowulf's bloodied flesh
dialog: and drop to the sand, where they squirm till the fisherman
text: whacks them dead.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D) *
dialog: We were out hunting whale the other
dialog: day. Storm came up and ate our
dialog: boat. Breca bet he could beat me
dialog: to shore. I lost sight of him in
text: the swells.
text: The fisherman tries to fathom this.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: So this is just you coming in now?
text: Beowulf nods. The fisherman gives a dubious look.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Y'ever swum in the open sea?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 12.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Leave that to my boat.
text: Beowulf stares a beat at the fisherman.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Am I right to think you mock me?
dialog: 13
text: The fisherman considers Beowulf's grim manner, and his sword.
text: He starts to gather the eels and throw them in a pot.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Can't see much life in that.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You do this a lot?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I take what comes.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Good. Then you'll have no qualms
dialog: if supper tastes like you.
text: Beowulf stares. The fisherman gives a battered-tooth grin.
scene_heading: EXT. FISHERMAN'S HUT -- NIGHT
dialog: 14
text: The fisherman pokes at his fire while Beowulf nibbles at a
dialog: plate of the cooked eels.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: So... what's it like being a hero?
dialog: Quelling things with axes and that
dialog: sword of yours... in - what - a
dialog: kinda bloody madness?
text: Beowulf chafes slightly.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: In truth I don't get all that mad.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: That's all I've heard of your sort.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: You should hear what they say about
dialog: fishermen.
text: They trade a wry grin. The fisherman stirs the fire..
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 14
dialog: 15
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 13.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 14
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: So... a hero, eh? A hero for
dialog: supper. Don't my shit shine!
text: The fisherman notices Beowulf's squeamishness with the eels.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: (eyeing Beowulf's plate)
dialog: Eat up. Be yourself!
text: And the fisherman cackles at his joke.
scene_heading: EXT. FISHERMAN'S HUT -- DAY 15
text: Beowulf and the fisherman stand before a rack of dried fish.
text: The fisherman is packing some in a small pouch, which he then
text: hands to Beowulf. Beowulf claps him on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'm in your debt.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: I'm in the fishes'.
dialog: (grim / to the water)
dialog: One o' these days they'll come for
dialog: theirs.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Good luck. May Aegir keep you from
dialog: hunger.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Good luck with your killing things.
dialog: I guess you thank - who - Thor?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: That's uh... not all I do --
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: No, I'm sure y'piss and shit just
dialog: like the rest of us. Gotta say
dialog: there's not much use for that here.
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: Hitting things with axes. Y'oughta
dialog: try Daneland.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Daneland.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 15
dialog: 16
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 14.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 15
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Oh yeah, word from the whale-road
dialog: they got one unhappy troll on the
dialog: loose there.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (dismissive)
dialog: I'd think the Danes could handle a
dialog: troll.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Guess the first eighty thought so
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (jolted)
dialog: Eighty?!
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Well... y'know how these things go.
dialog: Some say twenty, some say two
dialog: hundred.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Two hundred?!
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Yeah it bent my brain too...
dialog: thinking that many Danes could even
text: hold a sword.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: I know the Danes. They've bloodied
dialog: seas.
text: The fisherman reads the ferocity of Beowulf's emotion.
speaker_heading: FISHERMAN
dialog: Eh, I'm just a fisherman.
text: Beowulf looks out over the water, torn.
scene_heading: EXT. PATH / RUINED HUT -- DAY 16
text: Beowulf strides along a sheep trail, crosses over a ridge to
dialog: find...
text: ---a smoldering ruin of a HUT, a few SHEEP about. FIVE rough-
text: looking MEN are eating at a fire-pit.
text: He edges forward, eyeing the smoke. They eye him warily.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 16
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 15.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 16
speaker_heading: FIRST MAN
dialog: Dragon came in the night.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (playing surprise)
dialog: Dragon.
speaker_heading: FIRST MAN
dialog: Never heard of dragons?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Oh, I've heard. Just always
dialog: thought they were tales.
dialog: (glancing around)
dialog: And it left without the sheep.
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: Just seems odd... from what I've
dialog: heard of dragons... to leave a
dialog: sheep.
text: They offer shrugs.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D)
dialog: So who are your people?
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: I know most Geats. And this being
dialog: Geat land --
speaker_heading: FIRST MAN
dialog: What's it to you?
text: Beowulf then spots some movement further back behind a
text: woodpile.
text: His hand slides to the hilt of his sword.
text: The first man fixes on the magnificent hilt - a sword of some
text: renown. He eyes Beowulf with more concern.
speaker_heading: FIRST MAN (CONT'D)
dialog: That's some sword. You have a
dialog: name?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I don't know yours, you likely
dialog: won't know mine. Beowulf.
text: The others react - looks shooting amongst them - a name they
dialog: know and fear.
text: Furtively they reach for their own weapons.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 16
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 16.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 16
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D)
dialog: Maybe your dragon came back.
text: And Beowulf edges up the slope toward the shed...
text: ...till he spots a MAN on the ground humping something.
text: As Beowulf nears, he makes out...
text: ...the limp arm of a woman, extended over the rock and only
text: jerking with the thrust of the man.
text: The scenario becomes immediately clear to him: the burned
text: hut, the dead woman.
text: He draws his sword, and directly advances on the bandit
dialog: group...
text: ...all of whom now brandish weapons - though defensively.
text: The first man stumbles back, his movement putting the lie to
dialog: his words.
speaker_heading: FIRST MAN
dialog: Go now, you can go with your life.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: This is my life.
dialog: (ironic mutter)
dialog: A bloody madness.
text: And he charges forward, swinging his blade... immediately
text: slashing the first man to the ground.
text: A second man comes and, after a couple of traded sword-
text: strokes, Beowulf grabs the other's sword-arm, and then cuts
dialog: him down too.
text: A third man comes at Beowulf, who blocks his sword-swing,
text: grabs the wretch by the throat, and crushes it in his hand.
dialog: The last two from the fire-pit group now have clearly
text: panicked expressions. Nonetheless, they come at him with
text: their swords.
text: Beowulf routinely meets their strokes, then snatches hold of
text: one, throws him into the other, then decapitates both ina
dialog: stroke.
text: The headless clutching corpses then shudder to the ground.
text: Beowulf turns and marches up the slope.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: *
dialog: 16
dialog: 17
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 17.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 16
text: The necrophile, having just secured his pants, starts
text: scrambling up the slope, WHINING fear.
text: Beowulf follows for a few beats - and gaining ground - then
text: heaves his sword into the air.
text: It sails some distance before descending and catching the
text: necrophile in his leg. He tumbles to the ground, SCREAMING.
text: Beowulf strides up to him, pulls his sword from the leg...
speaker_heading: NECROPHILE
dialog: (a plea)
dialog: She was dead!
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Yeah. She was.
text: And Beowulf swings his blade down upon the wretch.
scene_heading: EXT. HUT -- LATER 17
text: Beowulf places the dead woman - wrapped, with care, in a wool
text: blanket - into a shallow grave.
text: Blood is splattered over his face and clothes, but the
text: wildness has left his eyes: now he looks only weary.
text: The CRACK of a branch behind him, and Beowulf twists about,
dialog: ready to fight...
text: .--but finds a CHILD [6-7], face tear-streaked, fear in his
text: eyes.
speaker_heading: CHILD
dialog: Are you a dragon queller?
text: Beowulf considers, shrugs...
speaker_heading: CHILD (CONT'D)
dialog: You quell children?
text: Beowulf shakes his head. The child eyes his mother.
speaker_heading: CHILD (CONT'D)
dialog: She might be scared here with these
dialog: men.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Don't worry. Crows'll come for
dialog: them.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 17
dialog: 18
dialog: 19
dialog: 20
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 18.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 17
speaker_heading: CHILD *
dialog: Then she'll be alone. *
speaker_heading: BEOWULF *
dialog: The gods'll watch over. *
speaker_heading: CHILD *
dialog: They didn't before. *
text: Beowulf can't argue. He continues gently covering the body, *
text: the child approaching and helping to pat down the earth on
text: the grave.
scene_heading: EXT. HEIGHT OF LAND -- DAY 18
text: Beowulf comes up over a ridge on foot, leading a HORSE, on
text: which the child sleeps. Beowulf smiles, his gaze finding...
scene_heading: EXT. GEAT MEADOW / SHORELINE -- DAY 19
text: +-+-.a group of tents and SEVERAL DOZEN GEATS, cooking fires
text: sending smoke to the skies, MUSIC and LAUGHTER drifting up to
dialog: the hills.
text: It's an annual gathering place - large standing stones set in
dialog: a great circle, and...
text: »-.-.across a black beach to the water, A COUPLE of LONGSHIPS
dialog: lie at anchor.
scene_heading: EXT. GEAT MEADOW / FIREPIT -- DUSK 20 *
text: With a LONGSHIP silhouetted in the background...
text: ---Beowulf sits almost central at a firepit - opposite his
text: king - HYGELAC [50s] - surrounded by a cluster of Geat
dialog: warriors...
text: ...the great standing stones looming over them like
text: guardians, the firelight already throwing wild shadows...
text: Among the Geat warriors is BRECA [30], almost as sturdy as
text: Beowulf...and, beside him, HONDSCIOH [late 20s], Beowulf's
text: best friend, and sitting to Beowulf's right.
text: In Beowulf's lap, the exhausted child is curled asleep in
dialog: spite - or because - of the raucous warrior band.
text: All of them have been - and are still - drinking, and eating.
text: A short distance away, a group of Geat WOMEN are LAUGHING
dialog: and TALKING among themselves.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 20
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 19.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 20
text: THORKEL [30], the Geat poet, stands before the men with his
text: harp, playing a powerful melody. His manner is serious, self-
text: absorbed, ignoring the questionable attention of some of the
text: others. His voice rises, resonant, hypnotic...
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: In a game to gut boredom Great
dialog: Beowulf and Breca...
text: Hondscioh rolls his eyes, snorts derision. Beowulf smiles at
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: THORKEL (CONT'D)
dialog: ..-hoisted their hopes on the
dialog: seething sea...
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Only cause they lost their sail.
text: Breca casually smacks Hondscioh hard in the arm. Hondscioh
text: mockingly plays great pain. Grins from some, but Thorkel is
text: undeterred.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: The whale-road white as the tongues
dialog: of trolls...
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: (at Hondscioh /
dialog: appreciative)
dialog: Hear that? The tongues of trolls!
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Arses, more like.
text: This time both Beowulf and Breca raise their hands to strike
text: Hondscioh, who winces, duly preparing for the hits which -
dialog: this time - do not come.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: The two fire-hearted friends fought
dialog: on / Steel-shirts a goad to
dialog: gruesome things / That crept up
dialog: from their water-worlds --
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Hold it there.
dialog: (to Beowulf and Breca)
dialog: You're in the boat?
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: Things are going at you while
dialog: you're still in the boat?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 20.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 20
text: Beowulf shrugs, eyes Breca. Hondscioh follows his look.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH (CONT'D)
dialog: Breca? You tell Thorkel that?
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Hondscioh, next time you're alone
dialog: on open water, just remember not to
dialog: drink it --
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: -+-again.
text: The roars of LAUGHTER stir the child. Beowulf rises and
text: carries the child to a bed of furs nearby.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Any fish with any smell would sniff
dialog: you two and heave.
text: LAUGHTER.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH (CONT'D)
dialog: Next time you tell a tale, Thorkel,
dialog: try to sift the sheepshit out.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: I sing what I'm told!
speaker_heading: HYGELAC
dialog: The song might well be stronger
dialog: than the bones it's built upon.
text: Nods from the cluster. Thorkel is clearly miffed.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: They bring me giants, I'll sing of
dialog: giants. I can only work with the
dialog: bones I'm given!
text: Breca fires a look at Beowulf - who furtively indicates - no,
dialog: nothing more happened, no thugs were killed.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: You want bones, we'll bring you
dialog: bones. Troll-bones!
text: A hint of seriousness slips over the group. Hygelac eyes
dialog: Beowulf.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 21.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 20
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Hrothgar would cross the water for
dialog: us.
text: Looks shift about, drifting generally back to Hygelac who
dialog: broods.
speaker_heading: HYGELAC
dialog: I know he would. I've had no
dialog: better neighbour-king. It's just
dialog: that... by the sounds of this thing
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: +-.-it's never met a Geat.
text: There is fierce pride in Beowulf's gaze, and proud nods from
text: the others. Hygelac looks at Beowulf, torn.
speaker_heading: HYGELAC
dialog: I won't keep you home to frighten
dialog: fish. And, if you can...
dialog: (indicates Hondscioh)
dialog: ...find Hondscioh a wife. Our
dialog: sheep can't take much more.
text: LAUGHS all round - mostly from Breca. Hondscioh gamely
text: shrugs.
scene_heading: EXT. GEAT HARBOUR -- DAY 21
text: A LONGSHIP is being loaded, Beowulf watching over the
text: process. He glances across the dock and sees...
text: .-.-.a row of human HEADS, appearing to be sitting on a
dialog: board... amongst them Hondscioh, Breca and Thorkel. One of
text: the heads moves, starts speaking.
text: Beowulf recoils a step, then relaxes, seeing the illusion...
text: ...the cluster of MEN standing by the boat, their bodies
text: blocked by the dock.
text: Beowulf strolls over to the group. Hondscioh is holding a
text: harp in one hand, holding off a reaching Thorkel with the
dialog: other.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: Give it.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 21
dialog: 22
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 22.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 21
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: What - you plan to sing the thing
dialog: to death?
text: Breca snatches the harp from Hondscioh, hands it to Thorkel.
text: Hondscioh fires a dirty look at Breca, who smirks.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: (to Beowulf re Hondscioh /
dialog: warning)
dialog: He puts one hand on my harp...
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Beowulf, we're gonna need some
dialog: extra shields.
dialog: (off Beowulf's look / re
dialog: Thorkel)
dialog: For our ears.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: (to Hondscioh)
dialog: -..I warn you - you're a dead man.
text: Hondscioh gives a mock-shudder. Breca and Beowulf trade a
text: grin. Thorkel does not, placing his precious harp in a
dialog: rabbit-skin bag.
text: And the loading continues.
scene_heading: EXT. OPEN WATER / BEOWULF'S LONGSHIP MOVING -- DUSK 22
text: Beowulf is slumped at the side of his LONGSHIP as it cuts
text: through the water. TWELVE GEATS are with him [including
dialog: Breca, Hondscioh and Thorkel], the sail doing all the work.
text: One man is feeding the hearth fire on which meat is cooking.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: Say this thing makes meat of any
dialog: man it finds.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Danes say. Danes who ran. I've
dialog: also known Danes who'll say they
dialog: fought off Attila when he wandered
dialog: North.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (wry)
dialog: Breca's right. Danes can't even
dialog: swim after fish.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 23.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 22
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Walrus, Hondscioh, and next one I
dialog: catch, its tusk goes up your arse.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Worse things.
text: Laughter from the group.
dialog: And they sail on.
text: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ICEBERG PASSAGE -- DUSK 23
text: A glass-still channel of water, in which dozens of ICEBERGS
text: stand... seeming to exude a blue-white light.
text: PUSH IN / FIND: a small boat - an Irish CORACLE - drifting...
text: -.-in the aft of which a man in ragged monk's cloak - BRENDAN
text: [40s] - is sprawled, his ratty sail catching the bit of
text: breeze, his hand draped over the rudder. He appears weak and
text: sick, his eyes those of a madman, fixed with suspicion on the
text: looming ice figures...
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: (slurred Irish mutter)
dialog: -.-woe betide you beasts of ice...
dialog: ogre, troll - I don't wary much...
text: He raises one skinny arm like a weapon.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN (CONT'D)
dialog: For I bring the burning sword of
dialog: Christ! To cleave you thus... and
dialog: thus... and thus!
text: And he strikes out his arm in the symbol of the cross...
text: before his energy leaves him and his arm drops.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: Fine then. Hold your tongues...
dialog: but dunna think I dunna know your
dialog: methods and your manner! They say
dialog: you lie more below than above and
dialog: on a whim will swing your ice-blue
dialog: asses up at God. Yesssss, well, do
dialog: as you must...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 23
dialog: 24
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 24.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 23
text: He rises, clutching the mast, pointing accusingly at the
dialog: icebergs.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN (CONT'D)
dialog: +..but hear this vow: I will melt
dialog: you and drink you down and piss you
dialog: out upon these shores... and -yes -
dialog: you may freeze up and walk again...
dialog: but only as a Christian thing!
text: And he LAUGHS like a maniac, then loses his balance, falls,
text: hits his head on the edge of the coracle - in the process
text: knocking himself out. And the coracle drifts, as before, but
dialog: now in quiet peace.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH SHORELINE / BLACK BEACH -- DAY 24
text: CLOSE ON: Brendan's weather-beaten - and unconscious - face,
text: complete with a scabbed-over gouge in his forehead.
text: A stone hits his cheek, he winces, his eyes fluttering but
dialog: staying closed.
text: Brendan mutters incomprehensibly, twists sideways, resuming
text: a fitful sleep.
text: REVEAL: SELMA [30] standing on a pebble beach several feet
text: from the run-aground coracle. Though her battered and simple
dialog: clothes suggest poverty, there's strength and intelligence
text: apparent in her. Also wildness and a fierce beauty.
text: She looks over Brendan... and his simple possessions.
text: She sees a small sack, opens it, and brings out a handful of
text: silver crosses on chains. She considers them a moment, is
dialog: putting them back, when...
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: Selma!
text: Selma turns to see...
text: ..-Unferth - on the shoreline ridge, on HORSEBACK.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH (CONT'D)
dialog: Y'leave him as he lies!
text: As Selma steps back from the coracle...
text: ...Unferth gallops down beside them.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 24
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 25.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 24
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Whatever else, I'm no thief.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: I didn't say y'were. He might
dialog: carry sickness. Y'bring it to
dialog: land, we all could die.
text: Selma studies Unferth a beat with vague contempt.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: By sickness, eh? Wouldn't that be
dialog: welcome?
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: Already looking out for our people.
dialog: You're not king yet, much as you
dialog: dream it.
text: Unferth lets it go. Looks over Brendan's garments.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: What sort of man...
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Celt. A priest.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: How can you tell?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: (sardonic)
dialog: By knowing. Y'ever leave this
dialog: land, you might know things too.
dialog: (looks over Brendan)
dialog: Needs mostly water... maybe fruit.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: Fruit?
text: Selma considers the water, and her eyes faintly glaze.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: But there's others coming... a
text: boatload of spears.
text: Unferth glances up and down the shore with evident concern.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: Slavs? No. We killed those
dialog: yesterday.
text: Selma shakes her head.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 24
dialog: 25
dialog: 26
dialog: 27
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 26.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 24
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: (eryptic)
dialog: These ones swim in blood.
scene_heading: EXT. ICEBERG PASSAGE -- DAY 25
text: WIDE ON: the iceberg passage through which the longship
text: glides.
dialog: There is no conversation now, all the warriors moved instead
text: by the eerieness of the light...
text: .»..some trying to draw warmth from the hearth fire.
text: c/s: of Beowulf's hand dangling over the edge of the boat.
text: ON: his face as he closes his eyes.
text: A small wave washes up across his arm..
text: .-.-and from the water a creature-like HAND reaches up, and
text: fiercely snatches hold of his wrist.
text: Beowulf twists around, rips his hand free...
text: .»--only to find it's been tangled in a rope from the ship...
text: ..-but, in the inky water below, a play of light... something
text: seeming to descend back down to the dark depths.
text: Beowulf repositions his hand on the hilt of his sword.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 26
scene_heading: INT. HROTHGAR'S CHAMBERS -- NIGHT 27
text: Hrothgar is creakily putting on his mailshirt. Though only
dialog: months have passed since the troll's first attack, these
dialog: months weigh on Hrothgar like many years. Too much grief-
dialog: driven drink, too many sleepless nights, have brought him the
text: dull and watery gaze of a lost man.
text: Wealhtheow, his wife, enters and looks troubled by Hrothgar's
dialog: action.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Who ever heard of a kingdom laid to
dialog: waste by a stinking troll!
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: I can't game more men against this
dialog: thing.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 27
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 27.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 27
dialog: Hrothgar
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Then don't. It's only in the
dialog: night...
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: So then - I'm king - but only by
dialog: day?
text: sneers, spits on the floor.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Fuck that.
text: Wealhtheow, without missing a beat, snatches up a shirt and
text: throws it to him. Hrothgar catches it, turns it in his hand.
text: She nods
dialog: Hrothgar
text: foot.
dialog: Hrothgar
dialog: comes to
dialog: her with
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: One troll outside is plenty.
dialog: to the spit: clean it up.
text: throws the shirt down on his spit, rubs it with a
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Maybe it needs the blood of a king.
text: takes up a cup of beer, has a gulp, then Wealhtheow
text: him and gently takes the cup away. He looks back at
text: mixed emotions.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Don't let beer blur your wits.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: You called it "he."
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Women seek a death for a loss.
dialog: They get their blood-worth and
dialog: settle. This has the blood-lust of
dialog: a man.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Which I have to quell... or I'm
text: already dead.
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: If Odin sent this thing to bring my
dialog: end... so be it. If not, then
dialog: he'll steer my sword.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: My dear, I miss the stars.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 28.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 27
text: Wealhtheow gently strokes his cheek. Her eyes glaze with
text: tears, but her hands move down and help tie the straps of his
dialog: battle-gear.
text: Hrothgar, meanwhile, takes up his battle-mask helmet - and
text: stares into the hollow eye-sockets as if at a ghost.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / PERIMETER-- NIGHT 28
text: Hrothgar moves out from the torch-lit rock perimeter... a
text: massive two-handed sword turning in his adrenalined grip.
text: His eyes fight the darkness, and his fear.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (shouts)
dialog: Troll! I call you out!
text: Nothing. Hrothgar takes several steps further.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Troll!
text: A sudden rise of WIND, and Hrothgar twists about - as though
text: Grendel had taken wind-form, but the gust passes... silence
dialog: resuming.
text: WITH: A GUARD on the boulders watching Hrothgar in the middle
text: distance facing out into the darkness.
text: WITH: Hrothgar staring out, catching Grendel's scent on the
text: air. Hrothgar's intensity returns, eyes scanning the
text: periphery.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Meet me in the light if you have
dialog: the guts. Or fight me now! You
dialog: hairy creep!
text: The guard shakes his head at Hrothgar's pathetic state
speaker_heading: GRENDEL
dialog: (throaty mutter / Troll
dialog: accent)
dialog: Creep creep...
text: The guard swings about, spear in hand, his gaze rising up and
dialog: fixing in terror...
text: .»..on Grendel, several yards along the boulder from him, also
text: watching Hrothgar's performance. Grendel grins, shakes his
dialog: head...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 28
dialog: 29
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 29.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 28
text: The guard's mouth drops open, but his voice utterly fails
dialog: him.
text: Grendel's grin shifts to grimace... as an arm swings up.
text: WITH: Hrothgar as he takes one or two more hesitant strides
text: out into the darkness, sniffing the air, sensing something,
text: his intensity returning.
text: PEBBLES skid to one side of him. Hrothgar wheels, ready to
text: strike... but another silence follows.
text: A shadow crosses Hrothgar. He wheels...
text: «--to meet a large shape descending through the air, which
text: tumbles in a limp heap, ending at Hrothgar's feet: the CORPSE
text: of the dead guard, his neck neatly snapped.
text: WITH: Grendel, watching with grim amusement, from twenty feet
text: away, one with the boulder he stands beside, as...
text: ..-Hrothgar charges forward into the darkness, SCREAMING,
text: swinging wildly and blindly with his sword...
text: After several seconds of striking nothing, he stops - catches
text: his breath - scanning around... but nothing suggests any
text: shape.
text: Finally there comes a CLICKING NOISE... and then - almost a
speaker_heading: LAUGH .
text: WITH: Hrothgar wheeling on the sound, making out the massive
text: shape, which he charges toward... only to find, on arrival,
dialog: that the shape is the boulder...
text: ..-.and Grendel is nowhere to be seen.
text: CLOSE ON: Hrothgar staring helplessly out and then up to the
text: brilliant stars. A sad smile comes and tears fill his eyes.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / PERIMETER -- DAY 29
text: Wealhtheow urgently comes along the path... passing VILLAGERS
text: who are subdued, all looking toward...
text: ..-Hrothgar who sits, hunched over, on a small rise, facing
text: the wilds, the dead guard lying beside him.
text: Wealhtheow hurries up to Hrothgar, looks him over with
text: concern.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 29
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 30.
text: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Are you wounded?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: The thing wouldn't fight. It
dialog: spared me... to witness this.
dialog: 29
text: A shudder rolls through him and he lets out a gasp, eyeing
text: the corpse. Another jerking shudder...
text: Wealhtheow glances back, sees the villagers watching, and
text: whispering.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: (under her breath)
dialog: Then get up off your arse... with
dialog: your thanes in sight. This is no
dialog: ground for a king.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (caustic / dazed)
dialog: Oh... you're wrong. For a king
dialog: who's had his balls hauled up his
dialog: guts... it's the ground. For all
dialog: the broken-bone wretches I've flung
dialog: to death --
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: And Valhalla.
text: Hrothgar considers the terror in the face of the dead guard.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: I don't know. Is that the look of
dialog: a man going happily up to the
dialog: feast... or down to the worms?
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: You talk like a madman.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: No - just the Danish king of
dialog: daylight!
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Get up now... or do we bury you
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Is that your wish?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 29
dialog: 30
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 31.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 29
text: Wealhtheow slaps him hard across the face - surprising
dialog: herself.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: (ironic)
dialog: With your thanes in sight.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Whose wife would you have me be?
text: Wealhtheow stares evenly at him. He sighs, shrugs.
text: Wealhtheow turns and strides back up into the enclosure.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD BEYOND THE DANISH VILLAGE -- DAY 30
text: Selma is picking berries. The sound of a HORSE approaching.
text: She turns to find...
text: ...Wealhtheow there. Wealhtheow dismounts, approaches.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: (nodding to a spot)
dialog: Watch yourself.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: You think I've lost feel for the
text: ground.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: There's brambles there... bog
dialog: there. Last thing I need's a dead
dialog: queen on my hands.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: You've had worse and I've been far
dialog: far less - dead or otherwise.
text: Wealhtheow sits down on a rock, while Selma keeps picking. A
text: long silence.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW (CONT'D)
dialog: Selma, should I fear for my
dialog: husband?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: If you've got nothing better to do.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Sweet, don't play the bitch with
dialog: me. I don't ask much and I don't
dialog: ask often. No one dares dirty your
dialog: name around me.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 30
dialog: 31
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 32.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 30
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: (ironic)
dialog: Nor yours around me.
text: They trade the hint of a smile.
speaker_heading: SELMA (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hrothgar dies happy... in his
dialog: sleep.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: That's a lift.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Take them where we can, eh.
text: Wealhtheow smiles, nods. A silence.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: I could find a place for you
text: inside.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: We chose our beds a long time back.
text: The women share a look. Wealhtheow nods. Selma continues
dialog: with her berries.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE -- DAY 31
text: A funeral pyre burns with the corpse of the guard.
text: ON: Hrothgar sitting on a rock a short distance off,
text: polishing his sword with a cloth...
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: That's one shiny sword.
text: Hrothgar turns to find...
text: .--Brendan shuffling toward him. He's a bit of a sight: in
text: his dark and ratty monk's wool cassock, hollowed eye sockets
text: and fierce - almost unblinking - gaze, plus a wonky and
text: unpredictable gait.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm told you're the Danes' king.
dialog: (off Hrothgar's stare)
dialog: Northumbria wishes you well.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 33.
scene_heading: 31 CONTINUED: 31
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Celt. You're a ways away.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: I am... but safe with the sword of
dialog: Christ. Father Brendan.
text: Brendan bows slightly, his large crucifix swinging forward.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: I see a man, I see a staff...
dialog: (xe the crucifix)
dialog: I see a weapon for killing toads.
dialog: (off Brendan's shrug)
dialog: Christ, eh? I've heard of him. He
dialog: ever have much luck with trolls?
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: I'm under the thought they never
text: crossed paths.
dialog: (off Hrothgar's dismissive
dialog: look)
dialog: But if you're willing to bow before
dialog: Christ, you shall feel the blessing
dialog: of his great strength.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: My gods don't ask me to bow.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: Nor should they dare... if they
dialog: won't protect you.
text: This stings Hrothgar. His hand squeezes the hilt of his
text: sword, but he resists striking Brendan. Brendan remains
text: unperturbed.
text: He eyes the pyre... as the guard is lifted upon it. A guard
text: begins to blow on a horn - calling the villagers to the
dialog: burning.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN (CONT'D)
dialog: To face God's foes is an honour.
dialog: I've come to drive this evil out.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: With your stick?
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: With the fire of Heaven!
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 31
dialog: 32
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 34.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 31
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: If your heaven's on fire, y'better
dialog: look to that.
text: Brendan gets a furious look, and starts to pace before
text: Hrothgar. Hrothgar, in spite of himself, is a bit impressed
text: by Brendan's intensity.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: Leave me on a dish for the troll,
dialog: then! Leave me and, if I don't see
dialog: man's dawn, I shall see God's! I
dialog: shall see God's!
text: Brendan gazes fiercely at Hrothgar a moment, his eyes blink
text: repeatedly, then he collapses on the ground.
text: Unferth strides up, checks Brendan, his breathing, his eyes.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
text: He's asleep.
text: All Hrothgar can manage is a sigh, a shake of the head at the
text: grim farce his life has become.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH SHORELINE / BLACK BEACH -- DAY 32
text: Beowulf's longship edges into the shallows of a black
text: beach... stone promontories rising high on either side.
text: He and half his men jump down into the water, and - guide-
text: ropes in hand - haul the boat up upon the stones.
text: As the men in the boat begin passing over their battle-gear
dialog: to those in the water...
text: «--they turn to the sound of a NEIGHING HORSE...
text: .---and see ERIK [a coast-guard] come galloping down through a
dialog: break in the rock, and pull up in the stones... just out of
text: spear distance.
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: Hold there!
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: As you wish. Is this land Dane?
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: It is... and you're not. So
dialog: unless, you're ripe for a shower of
dialog: arrows, you'll tell who you are.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 32
dialog: 33
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 35.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 32
text: Hondscioh gives a great amused laugh at Erik's threat. Erik,
text: unamused, lifts from his hip a horn.
speaker_heading: ERIK (CONT'D)
dialog: Two blows of this and fifty men
dialog: will be on these cliffs before
dialog: you've strapped your ring-shirts.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Fifty birds maybe.
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: (a threat)
dialog: Is that then your word?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'm Beowulf --
text: The name registers sharply with Erik.
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: Beowulf the Geat.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (nods)
dialog: We come as friends to Hrothgar.
text: Erik looks over their equipment, and over Beowulf - trying to
text: mask his awe.
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: We welcome friends. Bring what you
dialog: need. I'1l have men look to your
dialog: ship.
text: Erik blows ONCE on his HORN... the powerful and eerie sound
text: echoing off the cliffs.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: One blow is good news?
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: One blow is good.
text: Hondscioh winks good-naturedly. Erik glances at Beowulf who
text: shrugs.
scene_heading: EXT. OPEN GROUND -- DAY 33
text: Beowulf's troop, loaded with their weaponry - shields,
text: swords, axes, spears - walk across the even ground, led by
text: Erik with his horse.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 33
dialog: 34
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 36.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 33
text: Moss-ridden rock rises on either side, boulders and irregular
text: ridges suggesting menacing shapes... frozen for now.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE -- DAY 34
text: As Erik and the Geats come up over a rise, and into sight
dialog: of...
text: «-+-the Danish village. Erik rides up ahead to...
text: .»..a GUARD at the break in the rocks who, after a moment with
text: Erik, waves them in.
text: The Geats continue forward, scanning...
text: ...VILLAGERS clustered around a couple funeral pyres. The
text: villagers stare back - listless, forlorn, dead-eyed - at the
dialog: Geats.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (low to the other Geats)
dialog: By Thor... they've got the spark of
dialog: cows.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: How bout that one.
text: Beowulf and Hondscioh follow Breca's gaze...
text: -..to Selma, coming from the opposite direction, carrying her
text: baskets. She's a jolt of vigor and beauty, especially set
text: against the dregs through which she moves.
text: Beowulf finds her studying him with interest; he edges up to
dialog: Erik.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Who's the one with the baskets?
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: Selma. A witch. The happy would
dialog: keep a boat-length from her.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (lascivious)
dialog: Happiness isn't everything.
speaker_heading: ERIK
text: She sees people's deaths.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 37.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 34
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (wry disappointment)
dialog: Wouldn't you know.
text: And they continue on.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- MOMENTS LATER 35
text: The Geats come up to the great hall - a magnificent wood and
text: stone structure, three stories high. Below the eaves is hung
text: the great pair of buck's antlers, and around these are ornate
text: wood carvings.
text: The Geats are obviously impressed.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: That's one beer-hall, eh Hondscioh?
text: Before Hondscioh can respond...
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: If you like to drink with ghosts.
text: As the Geats consider this, a commotion rises behind them.
text: They turn to see...
text: ---.a cluster of men striding toward them, the commotion
text: coming from the older man at the center who is GROWLING
text: impatience, Unferth at his side, muttering explanations.
text: As they near, Beowulf recognizes the old man as...
text: .--Hrothgar, who is half-drunk and just roused from sleep.
text: Hrothgar, seeing Beowulf, strides clear of his own retinue.
text: Beowulf struggles to mask his surprise at the king's wretched
text: appearance.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: By the gods! My little Beowulf!
dialog: (derisive nod to his
dialog: retinue)
dialog: No one tells me anything.
text: He comes up to Beowulf and gives him a great hug... then
text: holds him at a short distance, looking him over, grinning.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: I somehow think of you as smaller.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I was eight when I left.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 38.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 35
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: You've grown!
text: Smiles all around.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'm sorry. We didn't mean to wake
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Wake me?! I'm a grief-crippled
dialog: king half-drunk in the middle of
dialog: the afternoon! What's to wake?
dialog: (beat / eyes welling)
dialog: By the gods it's good to see you!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Perhaps Odin too has woken from his
dialog: slumber.
text: WIDE ON: the group... Hrothgar's guards to one side... the
text: impressive band of Geats opposite... all joining in SMILES.
text: As Hrothgar leads them into the hall, the Geats pass...
text: ..-Brendan who stands to one side, beatific smile on his
text: face, apple in hand. He locks gazes with Hondscioh as they
text: pass, and blesses the group with the sign of the cross.
text: Hondscioh forces an awkward smile, nods, continues past.
scene_heading: EXT. GRENDEL'S CAVE / SHORELINE CLIFFS -- EVENING 36
text: CLOSE ON: a human's dried-out HEAD on a cliff-edge facing
text: inland. Several similar-size rocks sit in close proximity.
text: The head is almost down to bone, with some skin and a ratty
dialog: scalp of hair...
text: Another rock rolls up toward the head, but comes to rest
text: before it reaches it.
text: Silence... then another rock tumbles up toward the head, gets
text: that much closer, but stops as well.
text: A snarling EXPLETIVE in Troll-tongue:
speaker_heading: GRENDEL
dialog: Yahhhg!
text: REVEAL: Grendel, the rock-thrower, as he takes his stance
text: once more... MUTTERS reassurance to himself... then heaves a
text: third rock toward the head.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 36
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 39.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 36
text: This rock crashes into the head, knocking it over the cliff.
speaker_heading: GRENDEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (high-pitched giddy yelp)
dialog: Heeeee!
text: He struts about, chest swelling... then settles his gaze -
dialog: and sigh - on the sunset.
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL -- EVENING 37
text: The mead hall glows with a profusion of TORCHES - both inside
text: and out - stunning against the twilight, the great warm haven
dialog: it was meant to be.
text: LAUGHTER and MUSIC from within...
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 38
text: The benches are full of warriors and earls, one side the Geat
dialog: troop, on the other the Danes...
dialog: On the Danes' side, there are considerably more women than
text: men, the women talking between themselves, flirtatiously
text: eyeing the revved-up Geats.
text: ON: Breca scanning several women, his mouth falling open with
text: nerve-stunned lust. Hondscioh, beside him, reaches over and
text: nudges his mouth closed.
text: Between the two groups the fire-pits burn.
text: LAUGHTER and talk compete with a MUSICIAN playing a HARP, a
text: SECOND with a bone FLUTE, a THIRD playing a BODHRAN.
text: Hrothgar sits at one end of the room, Beowulf nearest him.
text: There's abundant food and jugs of beer being delivered to the
text: warriors by teenaged ATTENDANTS.
text: Wealhtheow, passing behind Beowulf, leans in to him,
text: indicates the numerous women.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: If a Geat were seeking a wife, this
dialog: room would hold better hope than
dialog: most.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: So many --
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 40.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 38
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Widows.
dialog: (off Beowulf's look)
dialog: Widows far too early.
text: Beowulf nods, glances across the group and his gaze meets...
text: ...Unferth, who is fixed on him, with an ugly look. Unferth
text: takes a long draught from his drink, clearly well on the way
dialog: to drunk.
text: Wealhtheow reluctantly pours beer from a jug into the drunk
text: Hrothgar's cup. With some effort he stands.
speaker_heading: AESCHERE
dialog: Ho!
text: And the room goes silent.
text: Hrothgar looks about, eyes watering. He smiles, but as
text: quickly gets overwhelmed with emotion. Catches a huge
text: breath. The grief and fear and hopelessness wash over his
text: face. He clears his throat, but nothing follows.
text: He scans the group, shrugs apologetically, LAUGHS - but it's
text: nothing the others can join in on.
text: Wealhtheow gently puts a hand on his shoulder, whispers
text: something in his ear. He nods and lowers himself back to his
dialog: seat.
text: Wealhtheow turns to the assembly.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: With my king I welcome you all.
dialog: Too many days we've drunk to forget
dialog: the night, and what it brings. But
dialog: today we drink to what the day's
dialog: brought - thirteen swords against
dialog: our curse. Thirteen men to swell
dialog: our weary...
dialog: (soft, suggestive)
dialog: ++-walls.
text: Wealhtheow turns to Beowulf and fills his cup.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW (CONT'D)
dialog: We'll never forget this gift.
text: And she moves along the row of Geats pouring into each cup.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 41.
speaker_heading: 38 CONTINUED: (2) 38
text: Beowulf rises, and he too finds himself a bit emotional. His
text: gaze drifts over the group as he speaks.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'll say this once: this is no
dialog: gift, coming here is the least I
dialog: can do. Danes, you sheltered me as
dialog: a child. Some of you here are old
dialog: enough to remember. To the rest I
dialog: say only I come as a brother.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: These others with me made their own
dialog: minds. We mean to bring an end to
dialog: this fiend --
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: (loud mutter)
dialog: As others vowed...
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: uUnferth!
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: By your will, dear queen... we're
dialog: wiser in knowing the hearts of
dialog: those who've tangled with the
dialog: thing.
text: A brief silence through which Unferth and Beowulf lock gazes.
speaker_heading: AESCHERE
dialog: (sharp / eyeing Unferth)
dialog: Those are dead.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: I don't brag of wrestling with it,
dialog: nor of being able to kill it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: The troll broke down these doors
dialog: with twenty Danish warriors
dialog: sleeping inside. What gives
dialog: thirteen Geats better hope?
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: We won't be sleeping.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: No - more likely bragging of your
text: fights with cod-fish.
text: A coldness sweeps through the room, the Geats on edge.
text: Aeschere rises, livid, glaring at Unferth.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 42.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 38
speaker_heading: AESCHERE
dialog: If you don't know what this man has
dialog: done, you'll shut your hole or have
dialog: it shut for you. If you do know,
dialog: then so much the worse!
dialog: + OH
text: Hrothgar glances over, blinking up out of his fog.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (to Unferth)
dialog: So, friend - unscathed amidst all
dialog: this death - should we guess you've
dialog: steered your way clear of bragging?
text: Unferth gets a wild look, rises from his seat, hand to his
text: sword-hilt. But just as suddenly Hrothgar has risen, this
dialog: time with fury.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR *
dialog: Unferth! Sit or see your guts ina *
dialog: dish.
text: Unferth looks suddenly puzzled, the beer fogging his head.
text: Finally he sits.
text: Hrothgar eyes the Geats, struggling for focus.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Forgive us forgetting the ways of
dialog: kin. Beowulf, if you do as you
dialog: vow, there's nothing you can wish
dialog: for that won't be yours - if I have
dialog: any weight in it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Now, before the dark must sharpen
dialog: us again, songs and beer!
text: As an attendant reaches to pour into Hrothgar's cup, he
text: covers it with his hand, shakes his head.
text: The musicians begin again, and the attendants bring more
text: beer... conversations rising up all around.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD BEYOND THE DANISH VILLAGE -- EVENING 39
text: The far-off sound of LAUGHTER from the hall drifts over the
dialog: field.
text: And a dark silhouette rises in the foreground: Grendel,
text: slowing at the sound. He listens with puzzlement - which
text: shifts to irritation.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 39
dialog: 40
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 43.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 39
text: He shakes his head categorically...
speaker_heading: GRENDEL
dialog: (firm mutter)
dialog: Na-na-na-na... na-na-na-na...
text: .»..and he lopes off toward the distant lights, his stride
text: lengthening, arms swinging, landscape streaming under his
text: feet.
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL / BALCONY -- EVENING 40
text: As the Geat warriors below and inside set up their equipment,
text: preparing for an attack - with a drunken Unferth watching
dialog: them suspiciously...
text: ..-Beowulf and Hrothgar stand on the open balcony, looking
text: out on the falling dark. Hrothgar's mood is grim... in spite
text: of the RAUCOUS men below... but he's more clear-headed.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Since it began we've had Saxons,
dialog: Swedes... even Slavs... coming to
dialog: see how weak we were.
text: Beowulf studies Hrothgar a long beat.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: I know. I look like walrus shit.
dialog: Comes of fighting things you can't.
text: Hrothgar manages a weak smile. Beowulf clasps Hrothgar's
text: shoulder.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: All bad dreams end. We'll see you
dialog: in the morning for herring and egg.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Herring and egg.
text: As Beowulf turns toward the battlement... a desperate look
text: crosses Hrothgar's face, struggling with the things he can't
dialog: say.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: If there's anything you need to
dialog: tell me about it... now would be
dialog: the time.
text: Hrothgar fights a shudder. Beowulf again takes hold of his
text: shoulder, steadies him. Hrothgar clenches Beowulf's hand.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 40
dialog: 40A
dialog: 41
dialog: 42
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 44.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 40
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: I'll stay here amongst you.
text: Beowulf shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: We'll bring you the head. Throw it
dialog: in with the herring and egg.
text: They trade smiles. Hrothgar studies Beowulf, sees his steely
text: resolve. For the first time in ages Hrothgar risks hope.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 40A
text: PAN OVER: the thirteen Geats, some lying on mats on the
text: floor, some on benches, one or two slumped back in sitting
text: position against the walls, all with weapons at the ready.
dialog: All alert and waiting...
text: -+-all except Unferth, who lies back, snoring loudly.
text: Beowulf sits at the foot of the empty throne, staring into
text: the embers of the fire-pit, his great sword in his hand.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 41
text: Brendan is kneeling at the bottom of a slope leading up to
text: the mead hall. He is facing the wilds, and quietly PRAYING
dialog: in LATIN.
text: The huge shape of Grendel edges into the light, headed on a
text: line from the rocks - through Brendan - to the hall.
text: Brendan, sniffing the air, visibly tenses but continues in
dialog: prayer, eyes closed.
text: Grendel - still yards away - slows to a stop, and takes his
text: own long sniff of Brendan. Clearly it puzzles him: a man-
dialog: smell he's not met before.
text: As Brendan's prayer increases in breathiness...
text: .--Grendel curves off and around him, then onward up to the
dialog: hall.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 42
text: An ember POPS... and it's followed immediately by the CREAK
dialog: of straining timber...
text: Beowulf's gaze swings to the doors...
dialog: 43
dialog: 44
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 45.
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 43
text: Grendel leans toward the doors, sniffing - and even more
text: puzzled by the smells from inside.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 44
text: From outside the sound of Grendel's SNIFFING...
text: The warriors swing up from their beds, adrenaline of battle
text: rushing in - but they're cautious to not betray their
text: readiness - all eyes are open, all mouths closed.
text: Some men remain squatting; others stand, weapons drawn in
dialog: preparation...
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 45
text: CLOSE ON: Grendel holding his forearm horizontally against
text: the door... seeming to test its strength.
text: Grendel's head then slumps forward, forehead resting against
text: the arm. Grendel closes his eyes.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 46
text: There then comes a longer CREAK and a gentle - yet enormous -
text: pressure on the bolted doors from outside... a great SIGH...
text: Beowulf, sword at the ready, edges to the door... Hondscioh
text: and Breca at his side...
text: There's a silence... the warriors' apprehension building...
text: ...then a prolonged TRICKLE sound...
text: Beowulf looks down, and immediately jerks back a step,
dialog: avoiding...
text: CLOSE ON: a liquid - Grendel's urine - pooling under the
text: door.
text: Beowulf gives his men a look; they all move forward as
text: Beowulf angrily throws off the locking timber, and swings
text: open the door, swings back his blade...
text: ...to find only darkness, and the staggering stench of the
dialog: troll's piss-mark.
dialog: 47
dialog: 48
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 46.
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 47
text: ON: Brendan, eyes closed, still praying... as a huge SHADOW -
text: thrown by the mead hall torches - passes over him...
text: ...a THROATY SNICKER from the passerby, and then he is gone.
text: Brendan lets out a sigh, but does not open his eyes.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- DAY 48
text: ON: BLACKSMITHS turning glowing pokers against the stained
text: wood of the great doors... burning off Grendel's urine.
text: Beowulf, Hondscioh and Hrothgar, amongst others, watch from
text: one side. Hrothgar is puzzled but relieved.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Worse things than a bloodless dawn.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: He let us rest... the worse for
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: He ever leave men alive in the
dialog: hall?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Since it began...
text: Hrothgar shakes his head.
text: The three men trade a look. Beowulf's drifting gaze finds...
text: .--.-Brendan, a short distance off, sitting on a rock - almost
text: indiscernible among the boulders surrounding him. He's
text: chewing on an apple, studying the others.
text: Beowulf strides down to him, Hondscioh and Hrothgar
text: following.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Priest, where did you spend the
dialog: night?
text: Brendan considers him a moment, then nods to the spot where
dialog: he'd been praying.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D)
dialog: You didn't move at all through the
dialog: night?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 47.
text: 48 CONTINUED: 48
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: (considers, shrugs)
dialog: Up once to piss, but...
text: Beowulf gives a dubious look.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (wry, rhetorical)
dialog: Why was such a daft wretch spared?
dialog: (beat / fervent)
dialog: Demon's wise enough to know a
dialog: messenger of God! To touch my
dialog: cloak's to bring God's very fire
dialog: and storm upon its head.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: That's not what he asked.
text: Brendan stares back at Hondscioh a beat, then - ignoring him -
text: turns to Hrothgar.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: Wise king, you must know the name
dialog: of Clovis.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: The Frank.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: (faintly condescending)
dialog: The Frank, yes. Yes, the Frank.
dialog: (beat / intense)
dialog: The Christian sword over land ten
dialog: times what the Danes hold dear!
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: He's dead.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: Did I say he was a god?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He's dead, yes, ten years now --
dialog: but not before he saw God's grace:
dialog: the Visigoths of Aquitaine, the
dialog: Romans under Syagrius, Burgundians,
dialog: Alamans all fell before him! And
dialog: all because he had God's ear!
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 48
dialog: Beowulf
text: CONTINUED:
dialog: & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 48.
dialog: (2) 48
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: If I recall, he also had a thousand
dialog: swords, neighbours gone soft on
dialog: wine and pig, no ice on his rivers -
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: And no fucking trolls.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: And no trolls.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: My skinny hand can only bless. But
dialog: trust me - this thing shall meet
dialog: its end in striking me... or those
dialog: of mine.
text: Brendan shuffles off. The three share a look.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Madness has its wonders.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: (throaty)
dialog: The Celt sat straight in the path
dialog: of the thing... and was not
dialog: touched.
text: The three turn to see a haggard, hungover Unferth approach.
dialog: Hondscioh
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (mutter)
dialog: The dead do walk.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (to Hrothgar)
dialog: The Celt held no sword. Perhaps
dialog: the thing hates weapons.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: But your men were armed.
text: fixes on Unferth and his sword.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Others here in arms have been
dialog: spared.
text: Unferth gives him a threatening look.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 49.
text: 48 CONTINUED: (3) 48
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: I've waited for Odin to bring me my
dialog: death. He hasn't.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (wry)
dialog: In his wisdom?
text: Unferth trembles with indignation, sensing insult, but
text: there's little to take hold of. He turns and strides away.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: There walks one of my toughest
dialog: fighters. He still is with men...
dialog: but the troll stole his spine.
text: Beowulf broods a beat.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Do you know where the thing makes
dialog: its home?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: We followed a blood-trail once,
dialog: took us to the foot of cliffs...
scene_heading: 49 EXT. FLOODPLAIN LEADING TO CLIFFS -- DAY 49
text: With the steam/mist burning off the water...
text: -.. Erik leads Beowulf and the Geats - on horseback - down
text: the black sand beach, DOGS running ahead...
text: «--to a wall of daunting cliff, at the bottom of which the
text: dogs sniff and howl.
text: Beowulf, Hondscioh and Breca consider the challenging climb.
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: This is where the blood trails led.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Not much known to daylight climbs
dialog: up that.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Which is why he gets his rest.
text: Beowulf starts up through the rocks...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 50.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 49
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: I tell you, this troll must be one
dialog: tough prick...
dialog: (off Breca's look / wry)
dialog: Do this climb every night after
dialog: supper?
text: And the others proceed to follow Beowulf.
scene_heading: EXT. CLIFFS -- LATER 50
text: The Geat troop is edging up the rocky bluff, but warily, the
text: warriors struggling to gauge the shadows which shift with the
text: shifting mist.
text: THORFINN [20s], wiry and vigorous, leads the way now...
text: .--with Beowulf and Hondscioh just a bit back of him.
text: Hondscioh eyes Erik.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: You want to blow your horn now, I
dialog: wouldn't mind those fifty bows you
dialog: bragged of.
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: I could bring the bows. But the
dialog: men are gone.
text: Beowulf gives Hondscioh a look... but his gaze then fixes
dialog: on...
text: .--Thorfinn who, stepping up, takes hold of a jutting hunk of
dialog: driftwood for support...
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: This is too high up for driftwood.
dialog: (warning)
dialog: Thorfinn!
text: As Thorfinn stops and turns, Beowulf urgently scans around...
text: There comes the SOUND of shifting rock just above Thorfinn.
text: The piece of wood comes free in his hand, he loses his
text: footing, and tumbles back...
text: From a ridge just above him there swings down a great rack of
text: curved white spikes...
text: Thorfinn scrambles to the side, just missing impalement...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 50
dialog: 51
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 54
dialog: 55
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 51.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 50
text: ..-before the rack lodges in the rocks on either side. *
text: Beowulf and Hondscioh - swords drawn - edge up to the *
dialog: whalebone barrier.
text: They scan through the steadily increasing FOG.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: vee tty) ;
dialog: Little high up for a whale's ribs?
text: They each take hold of a side of the contraption, but it does
dialog: not budge.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: This is sharpened bone...
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: ...and rigged to swing. *
dialog: (to Erik)
dialog: What are we fighting here?
speaker_heading: ERIK
dialog: A thing beyond our ken.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 51 *
scene_heading: EXT. ROCKY PASSAGE -- DAY 52
text: The Geats stride along a cleft between a sea of glacial
text: boulders. They are moving quickly - though warily - but
text: there is more ferocity than fear in their eyes.
text: The rocky outcrops suggest figures looming, between the moss
dialog: and mist and stone.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 53 *
speaker_heading: OMITTED 54 *
scene_heading: EXT. BOULDERS / GLACIER -- MOMENTS LATER 55
text: ON: brawny hands seeking grip in the top of a boulder. They *
text: do - and with a GRUNT of effort.. *
text: ..-Beowulf pulls himself up into view. *
text: His expression - that of the hunter on the scent of prey - *
text: loses its fierceness, shifting abruptly to that of a man lost *
dialog: at sea... *
text: As Hondscioh and Breca come up on either side of him... *
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 55
dialog: 56
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 52.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 55
text: ...the three gaze out over... *
text: -..a massive glacial plain rising up for several miles. *
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: We're out of our world.
text: The three consider the magnificent - if eerie - rippled ice, *
text: on either side of which rise only boulders.
scene_heading: EXT. RIDGE / WATERFALL -- DAY 56
text: ON: GRIMUR, a misfit Dane, standing in the river down from *
text: the waterfall, being baptized by Brendan HOWLING out *
dialog: indecipherable Latin. *
text: ON: Hrothgar sitting on a rock overlooking a waterfall, and *
text: facing down to the pool below the falls, his eyes watery,
text: face wet. Some yards back of him stands his HORSE. *
text: The Geat troop appear on the ridge, Beowulf at the head. *
dialog: Beowulf nears and...
text: ..-Hrothgar - startled by the approach - wheels about, sword
text: in hand. Orients himself. Wipes the mist/tears from his
text: face. Forces an awkward smile...
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: I was off in a dream.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Wish I could bring a better one.
text: Hrothgar scans their ranks, sees all intact. *
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D) *
dialog: This thing's smart as a man. *
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Were it less, it'd hang on my wall.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Have you ever tried to trap it?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Ten men waited one night. Ready.
dialog: With nets, swords, spears. It went
text: through them like salmon.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Yet it didn't try us.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 56
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 53.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 56
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (weary smile)
dialog: Perhaps you smell off.
text: Beowulf's gaze drifts to the water below the falls.
text: ANGLE DOWN ON: curious VILLAGERS scattered along the
text: riverbank, also watching...
text: ...-Brendan, in his cloak, standing with Unferth now who is
text: naked to the waist, in the middle of the swirling stream.
text: Brendan, SCREAMING his LATIN against the roar of the falls,
text: takes up a handful of water, and splashes Unferth in the sign
text: of the cross.
dialog: Hrothgar and Beowulf consider the ritual.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Baptism they call it. Unferth
text: feels he's fallen from the gaze of
dialog: our gods.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Did Unferth's king give him this
dialog: freedom?
dialog: (off Hrothgar's shrug)
dialog: You don't fear he has an eye on
dialog: your throne?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: I know he does. My sons are dead.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: From the troll?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: One to fever, one to Wulfings, one
text: to an iceberg turning.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: To sit in blood isn't every man's
dialog: wish. If this Christ can stiffen
dialog: Unferth's heart, what's the harm?
text: As Unferth wades back toward the shore...
text: ...Beowulf sees Hrothgar's despondency.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: They swim only out of fear.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 56
dialog: 57
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 54.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 56
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Still... they swim.
text: The two consider the dilemma.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD BEYOND THE DANISH VILLAGE -- DAY 57
text: Selma is alone in the field, picking herbs.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Dusk soon, eh.
text: Selma turns, sees Beowulf some yards off. She fights her
dialog: intrigue.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: You a herd dog?
text: Beowulf, momentarily thrown, struggles up a grin.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Been called worse. I'm --
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Yes. The much-told hero from
dialog: Geatland.
text: In their glances there's obvious attraction, but both are
text: cautious in the manner, reluctant to appear drawn. Selma
text: turns back to her work. Beowulf edges closer.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I don't remember you.
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: From when I was young here.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: No. I came here in my teens.
dialog: (pointed)
dialog: A whore to Unferth's uncle, Alvis
dialog: Three-Legs.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it was One.
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: Leg.
text: Beowulf lets her grim quip have its moment.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: You're not then Dane?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 57
dialog: Beowulf
text: CONTINUED:
text: A silence.
dialog: plants.
dialog: & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 55.
dialog: 57
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Oh I am. But my parents were
dialog: killed by Wulfing raiders.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (bright)
dialog: My father too...
dialog: (corrects himself)
dialog: .»..not killed, I mean, but a feud
dialog: with the Wulfings brought us here.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: (flat)
dialog: It happens. I guess you weren't
dialog: made a whore.
text: He gets her point. Selma continues with picking
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'm told you know of things to
dialog: come.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: That's a wide sea.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Of the deaths of things.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Seeing that everything living dies,
dialog: you still give me the sight of
dialog: gods.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Speak clean. You wonder of
dialog: yourself.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: More of the troll.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: (dubious smile)
dialog: Not of yourself?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: In some things I'd rather be blind.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: You're worse than Loki with your
dialog: sheepshit twining. We heard the
dialog: hero of the Geats was blessed in
dialog: flesh, but also thought.
dialog: (MORE)
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 56.
speaker_heading: 57 CONTINUED: (2) 57
speaker_heading: SELMA (CONT'D)
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: I say he dies, you likely live. I
dialog: say he lives...
text: She throws him a look. A silence. She relents.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: By Grid, you're the lamest blood-
dialog: mighty I've met!
dialog: (off his look / beat)
dialog: The death of the troll will cost
dialog: dear both the Geats and Danes... as
dialog: it bloody well should.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Why as it should?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: The Danes have done their doom on
dialog: him. And you come here to kill.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: We game our lives coming here. To
dialog: help the Danes. You said you're
dialog: Dane?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: I'm not a killer.
text: Beowulf grabs hold of her arm, his anger rising. But she
text: stares back at him, gives no physical resistance, only her
text: eye.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (a warning)
dialog: Many men wouldn't hold themselves.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Oh so you're a soft-heart too.
text: Beowulf catches himself, releases her arm, and steps back.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Some men end up torn to bits. And
dialog: eaten. Their heads used for
dialog: bowling.
text: Beowulf scowls, thrown by the weirdness of her warning.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Bowling?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 57
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 57.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 57
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Rolling a ball against standing
dialog: cups... or - I dunno - skulls? The
dialog: Saxons play it. But you're just a
dialog: worm-eaten northern shit... so I
dialog: guess you wouldn't know.
text: Beowulf stares hard at her, but her gaze is more than a
dialog: match.
text: They're interrupted by Hondscioh and Breca riding up on
text: horseback. Beowulf breaks eye contact with Selma, glances at
dialog: Hondscioh.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: The day's going down. If we want
dialog: to be ready...
text: Beowulf nods, and starts back toward the village.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Careful with what you don't
dialog: understand.
text: Beowulf turns, eyes her a beat, then continues on with his
dialog: boys.
text: Once out of Selma's earshot, Hondscioh catches Breca's eye,
text: grins.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: That's one spooky Danish girl.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Y'ever heard of bowling?
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: Something the Saxons do.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Wouldn't trust a Saxon as far as I
dialog: could throw him.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Y'ever met a Saxon?
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Knew someone who did.
text: Hondscioh gives a SNORT of doubt. And the men continue on.
dialog: 58
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 58.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE -- DUSK 58
text: Beowulf, Hondscioh and Breca walk back through the village...
text: .»..and find the villagers in an improved mood. There are
text: CONVERSATIONS in the pathways, mild LAUGHTER...
text: They pass the blacksmith's forge.
text: The SMITH grins, waves a red-hot axe-head held in tongs. He
text: gives a forearm/fist of solidarity, and rams the axe-head
text: down into the water bucket - bursting STEAM.
text: The three Geats continue on...
dialog: .»..coming upon...
text: .-+-Grimur who is whimpering, cornered into a section of the
text: barricade, holding up his arms to protect his bleeding head
text: from stones thrown by a cluster of KIDS.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Ho!
text: The kids wheel, stones in hand. Seeing who it is, they have
text: a quick MUTTERING conference but back off a bit. One kid
text: steps up.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Grimur's got a troll-heart! He
dialog: brought Grannel here!
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Grannel?
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: The troll!
speaker_heading: GRIMUR
dialog: (through bloody mouth)
dialog: I'm a Dane and a Christian!
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Your mother screwed trolls!
speaker_heading: GRIMUR
dialog: You little prick!
text: Wild-eyed, Grimur staggers at the kid, who drills him in the
text: head with a stone.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 59.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 58
text: Grimur screeches, falls to the ground, groaning and holding
text: his head.
text: As the kid moves to give Grimur a kick, Beowulf steps between
text: them. He eyes the kids harshly... but the kid is as wild-
dialog: eyed as Grimur.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: (tremulous )
dialog: Grannel killed my brothers!
text: And Beowulf sees the rage in the child. He places his huge
text: hand on the kid's trembling shoulder. Indicates Grimur.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: This wretch didn't. But we'll get
dialog: the one that did.
text: The kid meets Beowulf's eye. He calms, turns, leads his
text: group away.
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL BALCONY -- DUSK 59
text: As the Geat warriors prepare their troll-watch in the hall
dialog: below...
text: ..-.-Beowulf approaches Hrothgar on the balcony.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I didn't know this thing had a
dialog: name.
dialog: (off Hrothgar's look)
dialog: Even the children know him -
dialog: Grannel?
text: Hrothgar gives a disinterested shrug.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Has this thing - this Grannel -
dialog: killed any children?
text: Hrothgar thinks a moment, shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Women?
dialog: (off Hrothgar's headshake)
dialog: Old men... or men without war-gear?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: What - you're thinking he fights
dialog: with a clean heart?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 60.
text: 59 CONTINUED: 59
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I just --
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (flaring)
dialog: He kills the strongest first! He
dialog: shows us he can kill the strongest!
dialog: And who cares if he spares the
dialog: children - they'll die anyhow
dialog: without their fathers!
text: A silence.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: My wits still war with how this all
dialog: began.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Hate for the hall, I can only
dialog: guess. The night we finished
dialog: building it, the foul creep came.
dialog: We hadn't seen a troll in
dialog: fifteen... maybe twenty years.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: So nothing was done to this troll
dialog: itself.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (faintly irked)
dialog: Beowulf! It's a fucking troll!
dialog: Maybe someone looked at it the
dialog: wrong way!
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (beat / soft)
dialog: Some Dane?
text: Hrothgar studies Beowulf with faint suspicion.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Who hands you this? Selma?
dialog: (off Beowulf's look)
dialog: She's been alone in the wilds too
text: long. Her head's full of spiders,
dialog: lap's full of moss.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: It's said she sees things.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 61.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 59
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: The crazy do.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Listen, I never begged anyone to
dialog: come here and take on our fight. I
dialog: don't hold you here --
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: We came to help.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Then I beg you, don't saddle my
dialog: heart with talk of why a troll does
dialog: what it does.
text: Hrothgar eyes the dimming horizon. Turns, squeezes Beowulf's
text: shoulder, and starts down the steps back into the hall.
text: Beowulf scans the ground, the darkness creeping from the
text: rocks, but his heart remains unsettled.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 60
text: PAN ACROSS: the Geat warriors sprawled across the room,
text: weapons at the ready. Breca, Hondscioh, Thorkel, Thorfinn -
text: eyes open - listen to the night.
text: Several others are fighting drowsiness...
text: ..-while Beowulf appears fully asleep.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 61
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 62
text: ON: Beowulf as his eyes spring open. Otherwise, only his
text: hand moves - taking grip of his sword.
text: The CLATTER of something bouncing off the door.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 63
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 64
text: Beowulf rises, sword drawn... his warriors also furtively
text: reaching for weapons. Beowulf edges toward the door.
text: Another CLATTER but this one to the side of the building.
text: He tenses, puzzled, looks around at his band...
text: A brief SILENCE...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 62.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 64
text: +..then another TAP/CLATTER - this one from the other side.
text: As the men spread themselves about the space...
text: ...there comes a FLURRY of things HITTING and BOUNCING off
text: the ROOF.
text: Beowulf takes up a torch, indicates for Hondscioh to open the
text: door.
text: As Beowulf cocks back his torch-hand, ready to throw it...
text: Hondscioh and Breca throw open the doors...
dialog: .-.to find nothing there but the dark.
text: The band, led by Beowulf, nonetheless charges forward...
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 65
text: -..onto the porch.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Watch the sides!
text: As the men cautiously edge out...
text: +--Beowulf looks down to find...
text: .-..Numerous scattered stones and pebbles on the porch.
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL / YARD -- CONTINUOUS 66
text: The men move out several yards from the porch, then hold near
text: the ceremonial firepit, the darkness impenetrable any
dialog: further...
text: Hondscioh edges up beside Breca.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Can we smell that bad?
text: ON: Beowulf - the furthest out - a short distance from the
text: rest of his crew. He stares into the dark.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Come on, crab slime, show me these
dialog: teeth.
dialog: Silence but for the wind in the hills... the darkness
dialog: offering nothing else back...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: *
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 63.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 66
text: .-.the torch-lights flickering against the scare-hides,
dialog: against the standing stones and boulders...
text: EDGING IN ON: one of the boulders on which, gradually a face
text: be made out - the faintly grinning face of Grendel -
dialog: "playing" stone...
text: -.-no Geat even aware of the game.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 67
speaker_heading: OMITTED 68
scene_heading: EXT. SHED / FIREPIT -- DAY 69
text: With FOG hanging over the village...
text: Beowulf wanders along, brooding on the "peacefulness" of the
dialog: morning...
text: ...-Danes seeming to be going about their business.
text: He comes up to a firepit where Thorkel - harp in hand - is
text: facing a small group of fascinated CHILDREN.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: O'er the night, the warriors
dialog: waited, / Sword and shield in ring-
dialog: wrapped grip. / Then the fiend of
dialog: bog and brine / Crept to those
dialog: doors of ten men's weight, / Bade
dialog: it creak with breath alone / But
dialog: then smelt God amongst the men. /
dialog: Hardly had they hoisted steel /
dialog: Than the thing's rank guts gave
dialog: out. / Great Beowulf, God's awful
text: arm --
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (irked)
dialog: Enough!
text: Thorkel stops, turns, sees Beowulf...
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D)
dialog: (to the children)
dialog: Go off now!
text: And the children scurry off. Thorkel eyes Beowulf harshly.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: You scare them doing that.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69
dialog: 69A
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 64.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 69
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: oO fuck, Thorkel! They've only had
dialog: months of waking to the scattered
dialog: parts of kin! Don't feed them
dialog: lies. That was piss the other
dialog: night - piss on us. If any gods
dialog: were there, they were sleeping.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: (hesitant)
dialog: The Celt says Jesus Christ never
dialog: sleeps, that he walks amongst us
dialog: even now.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Oh yeah, that's all we need. A god
dialog: gone mad from lack of sleep.
text: Thorkel shrugs, strums his harp.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- DAY [FORMERLY 68] 69A
text: ON: Hrothgar slumped on his throne, staring grimly into the
text: otherwise empty space of the hall.
text: WITH: Beowulf edging through the door, seeing Hrothgar.
text: Beowulf crosses the hall toward him...
text: ..+-Hrothgar breaking from his stupor.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: I built this hall to be my home.
dialog: Not the stinking grave of my
dialog: people. Maybe it should just burn
dialog: down.
text: A silence. Beowulf considers the handsome hall.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I don't know what else we can do.
dialog: He comes here, throws his stones,
dialog: pisses, goes. If I knew what
text: steers his mind --
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Beowulf! What steers the mind of a
dialog: Slav? What steers the mind of a
dialog: Wulfing? They want what's yours so
dialog: you have to cut their heads in half
dialog: or else they take it! We're not
dialog: talking great thinkers here.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: *
dialog: + HF OF
speaker_heading: Oe OO
speaker_heading: OO
speaker_heading: 69AR
dialog: 69B
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 65.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 69A
text: Hrothgar studies Beowulf - seeing his ambivalence.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Something has you turning.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I fear the troll just waits for us
dialog: to go.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Same thought gnaws on me.
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF VILLAGE -- DAY 69B
text: Beowulf walks along the edge of the village, looking over...
dialog: -..some Geats making adjustments to their weapons...
dialog: .»..one mending his jerkin...
text: .--another whittling a fish from wood.
text: He passes an old shed, only to find...
text: ..-Thorkel on the other side having sex with a young Danish
speaker_heading: WIDOW.
text: Beowulf watches a moment more than he otherwise might...
text: briefly transfixed... before Thorfinn turns and sees him.
text: Beowulf turns away...
text: -.-.continues on over to a field...
text: ..-where Breca and Hondscioh are practicing sword-play.
dialog: But the two of them are in very different worlds: Breca is
text: fighting with spectacularly flashy great swings of his great
text: blade... whereas Hondscioh seems lost in thought - matter-of-
text: factly blocking Breca's strokes, but making no advances on
dialog: his own.
text: Breca stops, indicates Hondscioh to Beowulf.
speaker_heading: BRECA
text: He's already fighting like a Dane.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: You want to waste your strokes on
dialog: me and the air - go ahead.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: *
speaker_heading: OOF
dialog: *
dialog: *
dialog: 69B
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 66.
text: CONTINUED: 69B
text: Beowulf steps up, unsheathes his sword. Breca takes sparring
text: position... and they begin trading loose strokes.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: (mocking)
dialog: Hondscioh had a bad dream.
text: Beowulf glances at Hondscioh, giving this more respect than
text: Breca is willing to. Hondscioh shakes his head, dismissive.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (to Breca)
dialog: And yours were good?
text: A trading of swordstrokes. Breca shrugs.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D)
dialog: Here with the smoke of the dead?
text: Breca gets the shot. Takes a heavy swing at Beowulf which
dialog: Beowulf blocks.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: I don't see fear helping us.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Don't you fucking start --
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Fear, eh...
text: And Beowulf takes a couple fierce swings at Breca, under
text: which Breca staggers back.
text: The two stare at each other a beat - fire in their eyes.
text: And Breca strides forward swinging his blade as to cut
text: through trees. Beowulf - seeing the power - keeps back, till
dialog: Breca has spent some of his emotion.
text: Then Beowulf counters, knocking Breca back till he tumbles
text: over some uneven ground.
text: Beowulf stands over him, his blade raised.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Careful you don't drop it.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Fear has its place.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69B
dialog: 70
dialog: 71
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 67.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 69B
text: He lowers his blade, calms, offers Breca a hand up. Breca,
text: after a beat, accepts.
scene_heading: EXT. WILDS -- DAY 70
text: Beowulf edges along on horseback, eyeing the rocky outcrops
text: with suspicion.
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S HUT -- EARLY EVENING 71
text: Selma is cooking at her fire-pit.
text: Beowulf rides up, surprising her, but she quickly masks it.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: How did you find me?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Most Danes seem to know the way.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Most don't have the guts these
dialog: days.
text: She studies his face, sees a wildness in his eye, resigns
dialog: herself.
text: She puts down the utensils, turns her back to him, spreads
text: her legs slightly, hikes up her skirt, and bends over against
text: a railing, offering herself.
text: Beowulf struggles with his urge.
speaker_heading: SELMA (CONT'D)
dialog: There's butter in the bowl, if you
dialog: need it.
text: Beowulf averts his eyes.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I wondered if you threw the stones.
text: Selma straightens up, drops her skirt.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Rune-stones.
dialog: (off his nod / sardonic)
dialog: Oh no, you don't fear your fate.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: My weird is my own, that's not what
dialog: I ask. I need the right path.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 71
dialog: 72
text: 73
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 68.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 71
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: There is the one that leads back to
dialog: Geatland.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: If the stones say so.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: And what if I lie?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Then the gods will bring me back.
text: It's both a warning and a promise.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: So. No thoughts at all for my
dialog: cunt.
text: Beowulf looks off: it's not the word he needs to hear right
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: SELMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Warrior-monk, not many of those.
text: She studies him a beat, then turns and she goes into her hut.
scene_heading: INT. SELMA'S HUT -- DUSK 72
text: Selma sits on the floor, leaning over the rune-stones as she
text: shakes them, throws them, and then considers.
text: Beowulf sits opposite, transfixed by what the V in her
text: neckline reveals of her chest.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: The answer's in the stones, not my
text: breasts.
text: She looks up at him. He awkwardly shrugs - caught.
text: There comes agitation from the HORSES outside, STOMPING the
text: dirt, NEIGHING. An eerie WHISTLING. Beowulf stands, and
text: draws his sword.
text: He eyes her a beat. She looks back down to her stones.
text: And he strides out...
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S HUT -- CONTINUOUS 73
text: ..-into the yard, where he scans the now-misty periphery.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
text: 73
dialog: 74
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 69.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 73
text: Glimpsing a huge dark FIGURE running into the mist.
text: Beowulf watches a moment - in obvious awe - then rushes to
text: his horse, and mounts it. But, in turning to mount the
dialog: horse, he finds...
text: ...the figure already lost from view.
text: Nonetheless, he edges off in pursuit.
scene_heading: EXT. WILDS / ROCKFACE -- CONTINUOUS 74
text: Beowulf rides along, though cautiously, due to the mist.
text: Shapes can be vaguely made out... suggestions of movement,
dialog: but they're unresolved, indefinite - keeping Beowulf on his
dialog: guard.
text: There comes a weird unsettling LAUGH... then the sound of
text: FALLING SCREE to one side...
text: --.and Beowulf veers off the trail...
text: -..coming to a slope which leads up to a more sheer rock-
text: face. At his feet, dust from the stone-fall is only starting
dialog: to settle.
text: Selma rides up beside him. Beowulf gives her a wary look.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Was this in the rune-stones?
text: Selma shakes her head - but in exasperation, not
dialog: confirmation.
text: Beowulf dismounts and starts up the scree-ridden slope.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: That's less than wise.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (hint of suspicion)
dialog: So your stones say?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: They don't need to. Most could
dialog: see... to climb shifting scree at
dialog: dusk... in mist... unless of course
dialog: you're a hero...
text: Beowulf stares up into the mist.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 74
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 70.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 74
text: WITH: Grendel, perched in a seemingly inaccessible crag, a
text: berry-bush in hand from which he plucks berries and eats
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (shouts)
dialog: Grannel! Leave here... or stay and
dialog: meet your doom!
speaker_heading: GRENDEL
dialog: (weary mutter)
dialog: ++-doom doom doom doom...
text: WITH: Beowulf trying to make out the sound.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: It's Grendel. Not Grannel.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (xe Grendel's noises)
dialog: Is that talk?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Well it isn't barking.
text: A low rumble of a garbled MUTTER [in Old Norse/Icelandic]
text: from above. Selma smirks.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: He offers you the same.
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: You can leave or meet your doom.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You're not Dane. That's why you
dialog: still breathe.
text: WITH: Grendel...
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'm blood-bound to Hrothgar!
speaker_heading: GRENDEL
dialog: (to himself / mocking)
dialog: ---blood blood blood...
text: Grendel gathers up some stones from between his feet. He
text: GROWLS out a terse phrase to Beowulf.
text: WITH: Beowulf looking to Selma for translation.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 74
dialog: 75
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 71.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 74
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Says that's your burden.
text: Beowulf's temper frays, he raises his sword at the rock-face.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: My burden is your stinking life!
text: A silence... then the handful of stones come down upon
text: Beowulf's helmet, infuriating him more.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Come down here, I swear I'll hammer
dialog: these stones right up your hairy
dialog: arse!
text: A long MUTTER, and Selma tries her hardest not to laugh.
text: Beowulf stares at her, impatient for the translation.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: He says that might help. He's had
dialog: a hard time shitting since the last
dialog: Dane he ate.
text: The sound of shifting scree... and Beowulf raises his
text: sword... eyeing the mist for a discernible shape. But
text: nothing comes. A silence.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: He's gone.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Why won't he fight me?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Why should he? You've done nothing
text: to him.
text: Selma turns her horse and starts back down the path. Beowulf
text: looks - from her - back up into the darkening rock-face,
text: perplexed.
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S HUT -- EVENING 75
text: Beowulf rides into the camp to find...
text: -..Selma stirring up the embers of her firepit.
text: Beowulf dismounts, edges over to her.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: What was he doing at your hut?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 72.
text: 75 CONTINUED: 75
text: Selma gives a faintly contemptuous look, but it's met by
text: Beowulf's own look - one carrying a scary volatility.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: I forgot. You're the great Geat -
dialog: welcome to women wherever you go.
dialog: Swimmer of oceans... able to kill
dialog: five Swedes in a stroke of his
dialog: great blade...
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I only came to help the Danes find
dialog: peace.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: I'm Dane. I'm at peace. Not that
dialog: I always was.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: When Alvis Three-Legs died in my
dialog: bed, some - like Unferth - claimed *
dialog: I killed him with a drink. They
dialog: burned my hut, drove me to the
dialog: wilds. Then they'd only come
dialog: around to maybe spill some seed.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF *
dialog: Unferth too? *
speaker_heading: SELMA *
dialog: Unferth leading. *
speaker_heading: BEOWULF *
dialog: They still come?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Not since Grendel.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Grendel. What sort of name -- *
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Means "grinder." *
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Of bones?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: of teeth. He was born with bad
dialog: dreams.
text: Beowulf gives a skeptical look. Selma shrugs: believe it or
dialog: not. *
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 75
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 73.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 75
speaker_heading: SELMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Nothing I say will help you kill
dialog: him.
text: Beowulf studies her - sees the challenge - and her witchy
dialog: beauty in the falling light.
speaker_heading: SELMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Keep to the path. Try not to fight
dialog: with the moss.
text: Selma crosses the threshold into the hut, lights a lamp, then
text: takes off her cloak. She turns in the doorway and her
text: breasts shift noticeably beneath the worn-thin cloth of her
text: blouse. She stares back at Beowulf a beat, then closes the
text: door.
text: The sound of a WOODEN LATCH falling into place.
text: Beowulf, both stunned and aroused, turns and mounts his
text: horse, eyes the falling dark.
scene_heading: EXT. PATH APPROACHING VILLAGE -- EVENING 76
text: Beowulf rides along, warily...
text: .--while above, in the boulders, Grendel scrambles, smiling,
text: keeping pace.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 77
text: ON: Beowulf sitting before the fire-pit, staring into the
text: embers.
text: Around him, all the Geat warriors sleep. For the first time,
text: seeming peace.
text: Beowulf's gaze is fixed on the great doors on which shadows
text: gently shift, suggesting figures, ghosts...
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- DAY 78
text: The warriors jerk awake, scan around - no damage, sunlight
text: streaming through the door...
text: ...and, in a corner, Beowulf soundly sleeping.
scene_heading: INT. HROTHGAR'S CHAMBERS -- DAY 79
text: With sunlight streaming in through the smoke-hole...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 79
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 74.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 79
text: ...-Hrothgar leans forward against the wall, pissing into a
dialog: bucket.
text: He winces, eyes closed, sweat on his forehead. Finished, he
text: looks down, and - as quickly - jerks his gaze away.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (tremulous whisper)
dialog: Fuck me...
text: He takes up the bucket, starts out of the room, when...
text: ...Wealhtheow comes in with a pitcher and cups. She
text: immediately sees his state. She looks to the bucket, but he
text: pushes past her. Panic rises in her.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Hrothgar?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: It's age. Nothing more.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Stay.
text: Hrothgar puts the bucket out of the room, turns back to her.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: (persuading herself)
dialog: You don't go in pain. You go in
dialog: peace. Happy...
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Happy.
dialog: (forced laugh)
dialog: Well, then... I'm not going
dialog: anywhere today.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Who says this? Selma.
dialog: (off Wealhtheow's silence)
dialog: Odin wishes me no peace.
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: She said I die happy.
text: Wealhtheow nods. Hrothgar shakes his head, trying to fathom
dialog: the thought.
dialog: 80
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 75.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE -- DAY 80
text: CLOSE ON: a hnaftafl board [Norse chess-like game] with Breca
dialog: and Hondscioh sitting on opposite sides: there are about a
text: dozen light players surrounded by a besieging force of twenty
text: dark players, a light king-figure in the center of the board.
text: WIDE/REVEAL: Beowulf and a few Geats standing nearby
text: watching.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: So long as the king wins the day.
text: The Geats turn to see Hrothgar shuffle up, with an amiable
text: grin.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Always, my Lord.
text: Hrothgar pats Beowulf's shoulder, leads him away from the
dialog: others.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: So... another bloodless night.
dialog: (off Beowulf's nod)
dialog: Well, for you... at any rate.
text: Beowulf ponders the cryptic comment. Hrothgar makes sure
text: none of the others are close enough to hear.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: I'm pissing it.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (after a puzzled beat)
dialog: Blood?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (nods/shrugs )
dialog: It's come and gone over the months.
dialog: (forced grin)
dialog: I'm turning to a woman. Or a dying
dialog: man.
text: Beowulf gathers his words.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Last night I talked with him.
text: Hrothgar looks at him, not getting the sense.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 76.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 80
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D)
dialog: Grendel...
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: You talked?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: If you can trust what Selma says.
dialog: Hrothgar considers this a long beat.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D)
dialog: He stayed above me in the rocks.
dialog: But it was a voice... speaking
dialog: words. He only wants Danes. He
dialog: blames you for something.
text: Hrothgar almost chokes on this.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: He blames me! Of all the shit!
dialog: (fierce mutter)
dialog: What the fuck they think --
text: Hrothgar stops himself. A silence.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: There are coves north of here no
dialog: Dane even dares to go! How much
dialog: land does one mouth need? What's
dialog: he think - he's a fucking troll
dialog: Caesar - with rights to everything
dialog: he looks upon?!
dialog: (indicating the mountains)
dialog: We roamed the seas, I will say
dialog: that. But up there, that rock and
dialog: ice, we never found the need to go.
dialog: I didn't go knocking down his door!
text: The two men brood on this a beat. Hrothgar sighs to
dialog: calmness.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Word on the waves is I die happy.
dialog: (off Beowulf's look)
dialog: No gods I know have offered me
dialog: that. No. Mine just offer beer, a
dialog: fish here and there... and friends
dialog: to burn.
dialog: (beat /overwhelmed)
dialog: (MORE)
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 77.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 80
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: It's hard to hold you talked with
dialog: that fucker.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: He talked... from well beyond my
dialog: sword.
text: But it's clear in Hrothgar's look that he senses Beowulf
dialog: knows more.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER -- DAY 81
text: ON: Hrothgar, solemn, to his waist in the river...
text: WIDE/REVEAL: Brendan raising a handful of water and touching
text: Hrothgar's in the sign of the cross... MUTTERING LATIN as he
dialog: does...
text: As Brendan turns back to the shore...
text: ..-Hrothgar remains, and turns to the deeper water.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (a mutter)
dialog: Bless me... or be done... and drown
dialog: me in blood.
text: WIDE ON: many DANES on the shore watching the ritual.
text: CLOSE ON: Beowulf and Hondscioh, watching with clearly mixed
dialog: emotions.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Great. Now we get a pissed-off
dialog: Odin.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Or maybe no one up there at all.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (fierce, superstitious)
dialog: Don't say that! What's in your
dialog: head?!
dialog: (off Beowulf's look)
dialog: I don't game my blood for last
dialog: night's beer.
text: The two eye each other. Beowulf shrugs retraction.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH SHORELINE / HARBOUR -- DAY 82
text: As Beowulf and his men work on their boat... stitching the
dialog: sail, adding pitch to the seams...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 82
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
dialog: 85
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 78.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 82
text: ...Grimur approaches, healed, but still showing the scabs
text: from his wounds, and edges up to Beowulf.
speaker_heading: GRIMUR
dialog: I owe you for sparing me from those
dialog: stones. I can lead you to the Dane-
dialog: killer's cave.
text: Beowulf is stunned by the offer.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Grendel?
dialog: (off his nod / wary)
dialog: Why didn't you before?
speaker_heading: GRIMUR
dialog: I feared all things... its wrath...
dialog: my death.
text: He holds up a cross on a chain around his neck.
speaker_heading: GRIMUR (CONT'D)
dialog: No more.
text: Grimur gives a happy smile. Beowulf masks his ambivalence.
scene_heading: EXT. ISOLATED SHORELINE / BEOWULF'S LONGSHIP MOVING -- DAY 83
text: Beowulf's ship moves along the shore, Grimur scanning the
dialog: rocks.
text: As Beowulf looks out over the open water...
speaker_heading: GRIMUR
dialog: There.
text: Beowulf turns to see...
text: .--.Grimur pointing to a break in the rocks. The helmsman
text: leans against the rudder and the boat turns toward it.
scene_heading: EXT. GRENDEL'S CAVE -- DAY 84
text: Grimur leads the crew up over treacherous rocks towards...
text: «..an entrance in the cliffside. They light up torches, go
dialog: in.
scene_heading: INT. GRENDEL'S CAVE -- CONTINUOUS 85
text: As they edge into the darkness...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 85
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 79.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 85
text: .-.their torches flicker and HISS in the oozy damp.
text: Hondscioh takes several steps forward...
text: .»..and the ground goes out below him. As Hondscioh falls...
text: ...Beowulf lunges forward and grabs his cloak... the others
text: behind Beowulf grabbing hold of him to keep him secure.
text: They pull Hondscioh back up from the fathomless dark below.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: (to Grimur)
dialog: I guess you didn't know that was
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: GRIMUR
dialog: I swear - by Christ --
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Let's leave Christ out of this.
text: Hondscioh takes a torch and throws it down into the dark.
text: After only a few seconds it hits rock, and skitters onto damp
text: ground which it briefly illuminates before CRACKLING out.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: (to Beowulf)
dialog: Not far... but we'll need ropes,
dialog: hooks, more torches...
scene_heading: EXT. GRENDEL'S CAVE -- MOMENTS LATER 86
text: As the troop exits the cave...
text: ..-Breca turns back, undoes his pants, and pisses across the
text: rocks at the entrance.
text: LAUGHTER from almost all the Geats.
text: Beowulf manages a smile, until his gaze meets...
text: ..-Grimur, whose face betrays worry at this act. Grimur
text: turns and hurries down the rocks towards the beach.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH -- MOMENTS LATER 87
text: As the men near their waiting ship...
text: ..-Beowulf, sensing something, hangs back, but does not turn.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 87
dialog: 88
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 80.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 87
text: He kneels down, appears to adjust a leather thong on his
text: shoe. Abruptly he wheels around to see...
text: .+--a small FERAL child - dark and hairy - staring back as
text: though frozen by being seen. Their gazes hold several beats,
text: before the child slips from sight behind boulders.
text: Beowulf glances back towards his company... all of whom were
text: oblivious to the sighting. Beowulf turns back to the
dialog: rocks...
text: .--catches his breath, gaze scanning over the forbidding
text: scape.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH SHORELINE / BEOWULF'S LONGSHIP MOVING -- DAY 88
text: The men are buoyant - again, all but Beowulf and Grimur at
text: the rear of the boat, who scan the shore.
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: -..so they came to the cave of the
dialog: killer / But found it fled, their
dialog: weapons's work / Undone by dark and
dialog: the slime of slope. / Hondscioh
dialog: nearly fell to Valhalla --
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Let's uh... let this sad tale
dialog: sleep.
speaker_heading: BRECA
text: Hondscioh shows up - great Odin and
dialog: the others ask how he died, and
dialog: Hondscioh goes - I uh... fell?
text: ROARS of LAUGHTER from the group. Hondscioh eyes Thorkel.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: You better find a better line.
text: As Breca, at the boat's bow, leans back, pulling hard on his
dialog: oar...
text: .---a huge creature HAND rises out of the water, bronze arm-
text: ring flashing in the light, grabs Breca by the hair, and
text: starts yanking him over.
text: His oar slams into the other in front of him, alerting the
dialog: men.
text: Thorfinn, beside him, snatches hold of his legs.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 88
dialog: 89
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 81.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 88
text: The tug is strong, and Breca's head dips below the surface.
text: As Beowulf rushes the length of the boat...
text: ..-Hondscioh, nearer Breca, grabs an oar, and rams it
text: repeatedly down into the water below Breca.
text: The creature - hit - loosens its grip, and shifts under the
text: boat, a mass of long, tangled head-hair trailing... till it
text: disappears below.
text: The men haul the unconscious Breca back onto the ship...
text: ...to find bleeding gouges in his shoulder and a tear in his
text: scalp.
text: Beowulf, spear in hand, stares down into the water, ready to
dialog: strike...
text: .--but there's nothing more to be seen.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 89
text: As the Geats are bedding down...
text: ..-Breca - bandaged and grinning - sits before the fire.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Even the trolls want my beautiful
text: hair.
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: I think he wanted you for more than
dialog: that.
text: LAUGHTER.
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Great Breca, the Troll-house
dialog: Pisser! I'd be more careful where
dialog: I wave my spear.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: I'd piss in his mouth if he dared
dialog: to show it.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Best be ready to do more than that.
text: The mood shifts, all eyes turning to Beowulf.
dialog: 90
dialog: o1
dialog: 92
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 82.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL PORCH -- NIGHT 90
text: Beowulf sits just outside the door, waiting, listening to the
text: SOUNDS of the night -- wind, old songs, the sea, laughter...
text: His eyelids grow heavy. He drifts off...
text: ...into a vision: of the feral boy standing before him. The
text: child hands him a huge sword, which Beowulf takes.
text: The boy then opens his shirt, exposing his tiny chest. He
text: looks from the sword to Beowulf and nods: go on.
text: Beowulf - heavy-eyed - watches him a beat, blinks, jolts
dialog: awake to...
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL PORCH -- DAY 91
text: «--the glare of daylight.
text: Silent villagers surround him, puzzling over the tableau:
text: Further down the steps lies the CORPSE of Grimur, his head
text: still on, but twisted backwards.
text: ON: Beowulf, as the shock settles in.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH SHORELINE / HARBOUR -- DAY 92
text: Beowulf and his warriors are loading their weapons, as well
text: as ropes, poles and iron hooks, onto the ship.
text: Unferth rides up on a horse. Beowulf considers him coolly.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Seems Grendel doesn't mind killing
dialog: Christians... so long as they're
dialog: Dane.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: Can another sword help?
text: Beowulf studies him a beat. Walks up to his side.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Hrothgar's told me about you and
dialog: trolls.
dialog: (off Unferth's
dialog: embarrassment)
dialog: You back me up, you back me up.
dialog: Fall away on me, I'll kill you
dialog: myself.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 95
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 83.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 92
text: Unferth stares steady at Beowulf, then nods. Beowulf nods
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 93
scene_heading: INT. GRENDEL'S CAVE -- DAY 94
text: With thrown-down torches lighting them from below...
text: ..-the warriors descend by ropes into the cavern...
scene_heading: INT. GRENDEL'S CAVE -- MOMENTS LATER 95
text: The apprehensive warriors, armed with swords, shields,
text: spears, edge through the damp, stinking place...
text: Animal and fish carcasses are scattered about.
text: Each DRIP of water makes someone turn...
text: Some simple tools... a pile of wood and a fire-pit... but, as
text: the torches reach the corners of the cave... no Grendel.
text: Beowulf slumps back against a wall, sighs - relief and
text: frustration tangled in a mess in his head.
text: Hondscioh comes upon a small alcove, and discovers within
dialog: it...
text: CLOSE ON: the desiccated HEAD of Grendel's father.
text: Hondscioh stares in a mix of horror and wonder, then takes it
text: up by the long braided hair, holds it out before the others
dialog: to see...
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH
dialog: Look! Our friend Grendel doesn't
dialog: come from mist and shit alone.
text: As the warriors all watch, fascinated...
text: .--Hondscioh throws the huge head into the air, then - as it
text: falls - he smashes it through with one great swing of his
dialog: axe.
text: Eyes wild, he then smashes the sections into even smaller
dialog: pieces.
text: He stops, catches his breath.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 95
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
dialog: 98
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 84.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 95
speaker_heading: HONDSCIOH (CONT'D)
dialog: (soft)
dialog: I curse you and all your kin.
text: He looks up and finds Beowulf's troubled gaze. There's
text: something terrible in what he's done - and they are both
text: terribly aware.
scene_heading: EXT. GRENDEL'S CAVE -- DAY 96
text: The men finish piling dry grass and sticks around a great
text: hunk of driftwood in the cave entrance.
text: Unferth moves forward torch in hand.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: (fanatical)
dialog: For all who've died by the demon's
dialog: hand!
text: Beowulf trades a glance with Breca: who is this madman?...
text: ..-after which Unferth throws the torch upon the pile.
text: The men watch the fire rise quickly up around the wood... the
text: smoke twisting down into the cave.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH SHORELINE / BEOWULF'S LONGSHIP MOVING -- DAY 97
text: The ship moves along... half the men rowing... the others
text: scanning the water, spears in hand ready to strike at
dialog: anything.
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S HUT -- DAY 98
text: Selma is chopping firewood as...
text: .--Beowulf rides up and dismounts. His aspect is grim.
text: Selma struggles to mask her apprehension.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: So... is it done?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: He wasn't in his cave.
dialog: (beat / a demand)
dialog: How does he die?
text: Selma gives an ambiguous shrug, keeps chopping wood.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 98
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 85.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 98
text: Beowulf moves toward her, and she wheels, the axe raised and
text: ready to throw. Beowulf stops.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Unless your teeth can catch an
dialog: axe...
text: Beowulf softens his manner.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I led my men into this... not
dialog: knowing. If I'd known, I'd've come
dialog: alone. I see doom hanging over
dialog: some of them now. Doom I brought.
text: Selma considers his concern, lowers the axe.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: You found the cave.
dialog: (beat / hesitant)
text: That's where I see him... dying.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: And he wasn't there.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Would you sit in your cave and wait
dialog: for killers who knew the path to
dialog: your door?
text: A silence. Beowulf slumps back against a fish-drying rack.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: What do you know of Christians?
text: The question catches her off-guard. She considers a moment.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: They're looking for a father.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: What's wrong with Odin?
speaker_heading: SELMA
text: Odin gets drunk. Wrecks the house.
text: Beowulf nods. As she puts down the axe, and reaches for
dialog: wood...
text: .-..-Beowulf lunges forward and grabs her by the arm.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 98
dialog: 99
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 86.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 98
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Take me to Grendel.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: What? - y'think I can sniff him
dialog: down?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Maybe not, but he can sniff you.
text: Beowulf steers her over to his horse, grabs a rope and binds
text: her arms to her sides. Selma gives minimal resistance,
text: seeming more bored than anything with the exercise.
text: Beowulf lifts her onto her own horse, grabs its reins, mounts
text: his horse, and leads them off down the trail.
scene_heading: EXT. ROCKFACE -- DAY 99
text: Beowulf and Selma arrive at the rockface up which Grendel
text: previously lurked. Beowulf dismounts, turns to the rockface.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: What's the way up from here?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Straight... but you'd need claws.
text: Beowulf looks at her darkly, circles.
text: Selma gives him an ever-so-faintly-contemptuous look.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Then again, heroes --
text: He turns on her, volatile, barely in control. She almost
text: snarls:
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: You hit me, I'll be the one --
text: She stops herself, but Beowulf's heard enough to wonder.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: One to what?
text: Selma looks away.
text: Beowulf takes out his knife. He looks like he could do
text: anything with it. For the first time she looks unsure.
text: But he pulls her around and cuts the lash from her wrists.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99
dialog: 100
dialog: 101
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 87.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 99
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: I can't stop his death from
dialog: coming... nor can I hurry it.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: He needs to know... I know he was
dialog: wronged. But if he comes to us
dialog: again, there's nothing I --
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: (ironic)
dialog: You're warning him.
text: Beowulf studies her a beat, then remounts his horse.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Careful which side you end up on.
dialog: You're a long way from the village.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: You're a longer way from home.
text: Beowulf eyes her a beat, then turns and rides off.
scene_heading: INT. GRENDEL'S CAVE -- DAY 100
text: Through the smoky cave, Grendel comes staggering, coughing,
text: squinting through the stinging haze...
text: He drops to his knees, continues along...
text: Finally his extended hand comes upon the now-empty alcove.
text: He twists about, hands then desperately searching the nearby
text: ground.
text: One hand clutches something, brings it up into his sight...
text: CLOSE ON: one half of the facial portion of his father's
dialog: skull.
text: Grendel gasps, brings the piece to his face, sniffs it, and
text: his eyes go hard.
text: He emits a long HOWL - an eerie mix of sorrow and rage.
scene_heading: EXT. SHORELINE / GRENDEL'S CAVE -- DUSK 101
text: Grendel, eyes wet, sits and KEENS, banging two rocks against
text: each other in a hypnotic rhythm... his hands bloodied in the
dialog: process.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 101
dialog: 102
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 88.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 101
text: He comes to the end of his song, and his hands drop wearily
text: to his sides. He heaves the bloody rocks into the sea...
text: .-..wipes the blood from his hands across his face - in
dialog: warrior-mask...
text: ...then turns and fixes for a last time on the setting sun.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 102
text: With Hondscioh asleep on the next bench over...
text: ..-Beowulf lies on his, tired eyes on the rafters, edging to
dialog: sleep.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / PERIMETER -- NIGHT 103
text: The silence of the night.
text: PAN DOWN: the outer stone perimeter... to a GUARD impaled on
text: a wooden spike.
text: And Grendel continues through the boulders,, the blood caked
text: heavy on his face, his eyes wide, almost trance-like.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 104
text: A long silence... then the very faint sound of BREATHING on
text: the other side of the doors.
text: The oak doors begin to creak... with an awesome and steady
text: pressure. As the doors bend in...
text: .--Beowulf twists toward them. There's resignation on his
text: face: his fate shall now come. He takes his battle breath.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Wake up, men, or never again!
text: There's the sudden CRACK of splitting wood, and the doors'
text: securing beam snaps apart.
text: The warriors leap up, taking hold of weapons.
text: The doors fly open and Grendel - silhouetted - charges in.
text: Beowulf, no weapon in hand, rushes toward him...
text: ..-but Grendel, as quickly, shifts into the darkness.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 104
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 89.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 104
text: As Beowulf turns frantically about, fearful for his men,
text: searching out the form through the confusion of them
text: scrambling for their weapons...
text: ...Grendel shifts past him, snatches up the still-blinking
text: Thorkel - sniffs him - not what Grendel is looking for.
text: Grendel flings him to one side...
text: ...reaches and snatches up the next one - Hondscioh.
text: As Hondscioh struggles to get his sword in play, Grendel
text: pulls Hondscioh's other hand to his face, sniffs him once to
dialog: make sure...
speaker_heading: GRENDEL
dialog: (soft / in old
dialog: Norse/Icelandic)
dialog: For my father.
text: ...then deftly snaps his neck.
text: ON: Beowulf turning just in time to see... and his horror
text: gives way to fury.
text: As Beowulf charges towards him...
text: ..-Grendel twists around and throws Hondscioh's corpse at
text: him, knocking him down.
text: As Beowulf struggles out from the grim embrace of his dead
dialog: friend...
text: ..-Grendel reaches for Breca, but a sword swings down and
text: slashes Grendel across the upper arm. Grendel, seething,
text: turns to find...
text: ..-Unferth there, bringing back his sword for another swing.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: By Christ, demon, you shall die!
text: But before he can swing his sword...
text: ...Grendel backhands him, sending him flying against the
text: outer wall.
text: Grendel reaches again for Breca... but his arm is waylaid...
text: CLOSE ON: a fierce handgrip upon his wrist.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: Oe OF
dialog: *
dialog: *
dialog: 104
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 90.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 104
text: He turns and sees the wild-eyed gaze of Beowulf... as
text: Beowulf's other hand grabs Grendel by the hair and tugs back
text: his neck.
text: A spear, thrown by a Geat, slams against Grendel's chest but
text: bounces off. Beowulf, tugging Grendel into the torchlight,
text: only then sees...
text: .-+-the iron-mail-shirt binding Grendel's torso.
text: Grendel stares into Beowulf's face. They're frozen for a
dialog: moment...
text: ...there's almost sadness - wonder - in their looks...
text: +..then Grendel throws back his arm - Beowulf still attached -
text: and the two tumble back against the wall.
text: They wrestle across the floor, tumble over benches, through
dialog: tables...
text: ...the other Geat warriors circling, weapons raised to
dialog: strike.
text: But the target is impossible to fix on... the two figures -
text: Grendel and Beowulf - twisting about as one.
text: Finally Grendel smashes Beowulf against the wall, and gets
text: free of one of Beowulf's hands.
text: He turns toward the door, meaning to escape, but finds...
text: ---.a massive fishing NET dropped across the exit, and,
text: between it and him, a cluster of strong and determined Geats
text: standing with spears and shields levelled at him...
text: ---but, worse than that, Beowulf is still holding on.
text: Grendel smacks Beowulf again against the wall, forcing
text: Beowulf's grip to loosen. Grendel tugs free...
text: --.and scrambles up the wall like a monkey to the second
text: floor.
text: Beowulf, with blood gushing from his face, runs up the stairs
text: after him.
text: Grendel, finding the upper balcony door bolted, smashes at it
text: till it starts to give way.
text: But then Beowulf is once again upon him.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 104
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 91.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 104
text: With one hand Grendel smashes at the door, the other
text: struggling to throw off Beowulf.
text: Grendel charges the door with his shoulder, and it gives way,
dialog: bringing them out into...
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL BALCONY -- CONTINUOUS 105
dialog: «--the night.
text: As Grendel, dragging Beowulf, struggles to the railing...
text: ...Beowulf frees one of his hands long enough to snatch hold
text: of a hanging rope, which he then deftly knots about the wrist
text: of Grendel's already-gouged-and-bleeding arm.
text: Grendel swings wildly back with his other arm, but Beowulf
text: avoids it... though he lets go his grip.
text: Grendel snarls, then vaults over the railing...
text: ..-but drops only a few feet before the rope snaps taut, his
text: full weight wrenching down on the shoulder joint. A
text: sickening POP as the arm dislocates from the socket. He
text: SCREECHES pain...
text: ON: Beowulf wincing at the scream... *
text: CLOSE ON: the shoulder muscles, already cut, continue to
text: shift and TEAR from the strain...
text: .---and he twists in the air, suspended several feet above the
text: ground.
text: Beowulf brings up a spear, is trying to line it up for a *
dialog: death-throw... *
text: ..-but Grendel continues to twist too wildly. *
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 106
text: As the Geat warriors spill out through the doorway, they are
text: just as quickly mesmerized...
text: ..-by Grendel twisting above them.
text: Several warriors hurl their spears up at him. One or two
text: ricochet off his mailshirt, one lodges in his hip.
text: Grendel wrenches the spear out of his flesh, in turning, *
dialog: fixes on... *
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 106
dialog: 107
dialog: 108
text: 109
dialog: 110
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 92.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 106
text: .--Beowulf, leaning wounded on the balcony, torn gaze fixed
dialog: on Grendel.
text: Grendel manages something most resembling a shrug, then
text: fiercely jams the spear point back in - this time, at the
text: muscle and sinew of his distended shoulder.
text: The spear-gouge does its work: the flesh finally shreds, the
text: arm tearing off from the shoulder...
text: ..-and Grendel drops in a heap to the ground.
text: The warriors freeze, staring.
text: Grendel struggles to his feet, turns on them - SCREECHES -
text: then, with his other hand clasped across the pouring wound,
text: charges through the standing warriors - bowling several over -
text: and continues off into the darkness...
text: ..-those left standing too mesmerized to pursue him.
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL BALCONY -- MOMENTS LATER 107
text: Beowulf, also bleeding profusely, undoes the rope...
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 108
text: ---and the gory trophy of the ARM drops to the ground.
text: The warriors edge up to it, in awe.
scene_heading: EXT. WILDS -- NIGHT 109
text: Grendel stagger/weaves on through the night, weakening with
text: blood-loss, his breaths coming in gasps... the ROAR of the
text: sea rising.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH -- CONTINUOUS 110
text: Grendel comes through rocks, out onto the pebble beach. He
text: staggers forward, tumbles to his knees, rises... staggers
text: several blind steps more... until his feet reach the water,
text: and only then does he let his legs come to rest.
text: He's almost falling as he stands, blood draining into the
dialog: water.
text: He stares up into the starry sky - knowing it's the last time
text: - blinks, desperately struggling to focus. A kind of wonder
text: sweeps over him, relief, a sad smile...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 110
dialog: 111
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 93.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 110
text: ..-he shudders, eyes close, bloody hand drops to his side,
text: and he falls into the surf...
text: ---his body limp, cradled by the waves.
text: Something then shifts through the water to one side of him.
text: Another arm - much like his - breaks the surface, reaches up,
text: takes hold of Grendel's shoulder, and pulls him down below
text: the water.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- DAY 111
text: As a couple of warriors carry Hondscioh's body out... *
dialog: ...Beowulf, surrounded by Breca and several other Geats, *
text: watch from their horses.
text: Hrothgar approaches, eyes Hondscioh's corpse. *
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Now you truly know our loss.
text: Beowulf edges out of hearing of the others.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: You only gave us half the tale.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: The other half would dull your
dialog: sword.
text: Beowulf dismounts, eyes Hrothgar evenly. *
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: That troll didn't give a shit about
dialog: us, not until we wronged him. He
dialog: killed one. He could've killed
dialog: more. He killed the one he held in
dialog: blame. *
text: Hrothgar meets Beowulf's look, sighs, lets the door open. *
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Were it so easy... I'd have been *
dialog: the one. *
dialog: (off Beowulf's look) *
dialog: I killed his father. *
dialog: (beat) *
dialog: (MORE)
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 111
dialog: 112
dialog: 113
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 94.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 111
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: And even that might have been an
dialog: end... had it just been the father
dialog: there...
text: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SHORELINE / CLIFFS [FLASHBACK] -- DUSK 112
dialog: [The same cliffs from the opening sequence. ]
text: Hrothgar raises up his battle-mask, holds up his torch, peers
text: down into the rocks... and sees...
text: CLOSE ON: the face of the tiny troll-child - Grendel -
text: shuddering with fear, staring up.
text: Hrothgar's breath catches in his throat. He stares a moment
dialog: more...
text: ...then he heaves his torch off the cliff, as far out in the
dialog: sea as he can...
text: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MEAD HALL -- DAY 113
text: Hrothgar's expression echoes that of the memory: one of
text: puzzlement... but now deepened with guilt and regret.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: None of the others saw the child.
dialog: (beat / shrugs)
dialog: I could've quelled it there and
dialog: then... but weakness stopped my
dialog: spear.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Or kindness.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Then it's the hardest kindness I
dialog: know.
text: Hrothgar reaches under his shirt and brings out a Christian
text: erucifix and his Thor-hammer pendant - each on its own silver
dialog: chain. Considers them both.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: And now all gods run from me as
dialog: though I were the death itself.
text: Hrothgar turns and walks toward the mead hall entrance,
dialog: Beowulf following.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 113
dialog: 114
text: 115
dialog: 116
dialog: 117
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 95.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 113
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: So what had the father done? Why
dialog: did you kill him?
text: Hrothgar continues toward the hall, brooding on the question.
text: He stops in the shadow of the doorway, struggling.
text: And then he continues in...
speaker_heading: OMITTED 114
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 115
text: ON: Hrothgar and his weary mind.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
text: He crossed our path.
text: The pathetic pettiness of Hrothgar's answer sweeps over him
dialog: before he speaks it:
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: He took a fish.
text: Hrothgar looks to Beowulf, then gazes up to the central
dialog: rafter...
text: .--.onto which several Danes are mounting Grendel's arm:
text: roping it up then driving spikes through it to hold it to the
text: beam.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: We'll follow the blood trail. Make
dialog: sure it's done.
text: Hrothgar nods... and Beowulf withdraws.
scene_heading: EXT. WILDS -- DAY 116
text: Beowulf and his warriors follow the blood-trail...
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH -- DAY 117
text: +-+.to the cove in the rocks traversed by Grendel.
text: CLOSE ON: the twisting blood-trail through the sand and
text: stones, ending at the hide-tide line.
text: Beowulf and Breca stand together, Thorfinn just back of them,
text: others nearby.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 117
dialog: 118
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 96.
text: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Without an arm...
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: Unless it grows back.
dialog: (off Beowulf's look)
dialog: He's a troll.
text: Beowulf musters all the patience he can.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Tell me, Thorfinn. What's a troll?
text: Thorfinn shrugs.
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: I've just always liked to put my
dialog: foot on a kill. Make sure it isn't
text: still moving.
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: They say there are lizards that
dialog: grow back limbs. They say there
dialog: are worms that grow back heads.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: This is no more worm than you or I.
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: I'd fight with one arm.
text: ON: Beowulf's ambivalent look.
dialog: 117
text: He gazes down into the water - which offers no certainty of
dialog: anything.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- DAY
dialog: 118
text: CLOSE ON: Grendel's great [and gory] arm nailed to the end
text: rafters.
text: ON: Beowulf looking up at the arm, Aeschere beside him
speaker_heading: AESCHERE
dialog: (discreet)
dialog: I don't know if that's the thing.
dialog: (off Beowulf's look)
dialog: To nail it up.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: No good comes from gloating.
text: Beowulf nods, shrugs.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 118
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 97.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 118
text: WIDE/REVEAL: the hall full of Danes and Geats, drinking and
dialog: feasting in celebration...
text: ...and, beside Beowulf, a pile of gifts: a great gold banner,
text: a glimmering mail-shirt, an ornate sword...
text: It's a raucous party, a vent for the fear that's hung over
text: these people, a loud celebration of the relief they now feel.
text: WITH: a half-drunk Unferth leaning in to Brendan who - though
text: also tipsy - is tiring of Unferth's confession.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: I've put my thing in other men's
dialog: wives, other men's daughters...
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: It all can be forgiven.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: I slept with a witch - that's gotta
dialog: be bad...
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: (thrown)
dialog: You slept with a witch?
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: Put my thing in her. That was a
dialog: while back --
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: So long as you vow to change your
dialog: ways.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: Oh, y'know I'll try, right, but...
text: Brendan sighs.
text: WITH: Beowulf standing with a slightly-drunk Hrothgar and a
dialog: sober Wealhtheow.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: These gifts won't bring you back
dialog: your friend, but they might show
dialog: his family our endless thanks.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: They'd welcome that tales were told
dialog: of him here. That beers were
dialog: raised --
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: *
dialog: 118
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 98.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 118
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: (loaded)
dialog: His name will hold fast. This
dialog: land's seen a fear far worse than
dialog: Huns or Hathobards. We've pissed
dialog: our beds, buried our children. Our
dialog: boys dreaded growing. Our men are
dialog: walking ghosts.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We can never thank you enough.
text: Wealhtheow kisses Beowulf firmly on the mouth. Beowulf
text: awkwardly accepts the gesture.
text: Wealhtheow turns and continues away.
text: Beowulf looks to Hrothgar, who gives a shrug.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Most women would've let me sink.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: Odin as well.
text: Beowulf turns, sees Brendan several feet back. Beowulf eyes
dialog: him hard.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I can't say how things go in the
dialog: South, but in the North, creeping
dialog: up can earn you your death.
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: I took this for a feast of friends.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Then don't scoff at gods that
dialog: welcome yours.
text: Brendan, perturbed, faintly bows to Hrothgar, withdraws.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Go easy, he's harmless.
text: Hrothgar grabs a jug and fills up both their cups.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: To the end of gloom!
text: Beowulf forces a smile, joins Hrothgar in a gulp.
text: WITH: Breca and Thorfinn staring up at the arm.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 118
dialog: Beowulf
text: CONTINUED:
dialog: & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 99.
dialog: (3) 118
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Where's the arm-ring? I wanted
dialog: that arm-ring.
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: He didn't have an arm-ring.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Sure he did. Listen, the fucker
dialog: near snapped my neck. Figured the
dialog: least thing I'd get would be the
dialog: arm-ring.
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: Smell like him it's all yours.
dialog: WITH: Beowulf and Hrothgar, Hrothgar determined to enjoy
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: I don't think I'm the worst king...
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Not at all --
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: -.-when I think of the others.
dialog: Martin Longsword the Saxon has a
dialog: long sword but no brain. Half his
dialog: kin ran to Angle-land. Six-tooth
dialog: Peter of the Slavs can't keep his
dialog: warriors from fighting each other.
dialog: (beat / smiles)
dialog: Then... yeah... then there's Sig!
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Sig?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Sig Skullsplitter of the
dialog: Hathobards. You don't know Sig?
dialog: You haven't heard of Sig?!
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Something... I don't know... with
dialog: sheep?
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Good God, man! Sheep are just the
dialog: tip of it. They say he tried a
dialog: dead walrus once... he's tried
dialog: horses... he's tried goats.
dialog: (MORE)
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 118
dialog: 119
dialog: 120
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 100.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 118
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: (edging hysterical)
dialog: They say he tried it once with a
dialog: rabbit... and got stuck --
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Stuck?!
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Yeah! So when he comes to fight,
dialog: it's on six legs... and you want to
dialog: see fast?!
text: Hrothgar roars with LAUGHTER, Beowulf laughing as well.
text: Tears start streaming from Hrothgar's eyes.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: (between laughs)
dialog: I tell you... I tell you... if he
dialog: ever comes here again, I'll send
dialog: out a batch of squirrels! That'll
dialog: slow him...!
text: More hysterical laughter and tears... and gradually the mask
text: of humour falls... and Hrothgar is reduced to tearful
text: gasps... the fear climbing back into his eyes.
text: Beowulf pats his shoulder.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
text: It's over now. The troll's dead.
text: Wealhtheow comes up, sees Hrothgar's state.
speaker_heading: WEALHTHEOW
dialog: Dear, come on. Lie down a bit.
dialog: There'll be many nights now to
dialog: drink.
text: She trades a look with Beowulf, and steers Hrothgar away.
text: Beowulf looks over the gathering, smiles... but it's wearied
dialog: and bittersweet.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- DAY 119
text: Beowulf, with a few drinks in him, emerges from the smoky
text: hall and sucks in the fresher air.
text: He looks around, lost... and a little drunk.
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S HUT -- EVENING 120
text: Beowulf rides into the clearing.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 101.
text: 120 CONTINUED: 120
text: Selma, at her firepit, takes up a stick and stirs up the
text: embers.
text: Beowulf dismounts. Approaches the fire. She glances at him -
text: completely neutral - then back to the fire.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: So... is this more or less as you
dialog: saw it? With Grendel?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: I saw you more bloodied.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'm sorry. Luck stood at my side.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Luck can be a whore too.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So... aren't you missing the meal?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Guess I'm missing my best friend
dialog: more.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Hondscioh.
dialog: (off his nod)
dialog: And one Geat life's worth - what? -
dialog: two Danes...? Three Swedes...?
dialog: Ten trolls?
dialog: (off Beowulf's stare)
dialog: Hondscioh's life had worth to you,
dialog: since you knew him. Others know
dialog: others.
text: A long beat. A realization comes to Beowulf.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: You mourn the troll.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: I knew him.
text: As she stirs her fire...
text: DISSOLVE TO:
dialog: 121
dialog: 122
dialog: 123
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 102.
scene_heading: EXT. WILDS / LAVA FIELD -- DAY 121
text: PAN ACROSS: a huge lava field, the forms eerily suggesting
text: hundreds of figures frozen in the light...
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: We'd all heard tales when we were
dialog: kids... later, we learned that most
dialog: were told to keep us out of streams
dialog: in the spring... or clear of
dialog: icebergs when they were calving.
dialog: The wilds were harsh, you could
dialog: wander lost for days... so they
dialog: told us trolls lived there...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ...but they did.
text: A shape in the middle distance abruptly turns, rises: it's
dialog: Grendel.
scene_heading: INT. SELMA'S HUT [FLASHBACK] -- NIGHT 122
text: Selma - half-a-dozen years younger - lies in bed, edging to
text: sleep. Only the sound of the WIND and the SEA...
text: Then the CREAK of her door edging open. Selma turns, sees...
text: ..-Grendel slowly fill the doorway, enter the hut, sniff
text: around, eye her.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: One night Grendel found my hut.
text: Grendel crosses the room, huge, hulking... and MUTTERING a
text: low apology.
text: Selma, petrified, closes her eyes, mutters prayers, curled up
text: beneath her blanket.
text: Grendel reaches out and pulls back the blanket, pulls Selma
dialog: up by the hips...
text: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S HUT / FIREPIT -- EVENING [CONTINUOUS] 123
text: Beowulf stares down into the embers... Selma stirring them
text: with a stick. She throws on more peat, and as the smoke
text: rises...
text: CUT TO:
dialog: 124
dialog: 125
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 103.
scene_heading: INT. SELMA'S HUT [FLASHBACK] -- NIGHT 124
text: Grendel is methodically thrusting into Selma from behind.
text: She is crying quietly, gasping, her eyes wide in confusion...
text: Grendel climaxes with little apparent emotion - just a few
text: breaths heavier than previously - then he places Selma back
text: on her bed, face-down, and pulls the blanket back up over
dialog: her.
text: Selma remains where she is, in shock... but no longer crying,
text: only softly panting from the effort, and the fear as it ebbs
text: away... her eyes wide...
text: .---and, as Grendel's breathing also softens, there comes the
text: CREAKING steps of his exit...
text: «.-the door opening... SOUNDS of the wind and sea...
text: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S HUT / FIREPIT -- EVENING [CONTINUOUS] 125
text: Selma is placing sticks on the fire. She glances up at
dialog: Beowulf.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Thing is, he never took me again.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Then why did he keep coming?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Keep the Danes away. The ones
dialog: who'd fuck me then cut my throat.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Show me them.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: They're mostly gone now.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (dismissive)
dialog: Everywhere there's wretches... no
dialog: more here than --
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: Yes. Some of Hrothgar's best.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 125
dialog: 126
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 104.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 125
text: Beowulf sees her now in profile, her eyes wet, her skin
text: shimmering in the flicker of fire-light. Her beauty. He
text: edges up to her.
text: She turns, studies him, then backhands him hard in the face.
text: He staggers back a step, more stunned than offended.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Where did that have its birth?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: You thinking you can tie me up and
dialog: drag me like a dog.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't forget. I know how you die.
text: Beowulf is jolted. Almost as much as when she rises up to
text: him and kisses him - hard.
text: They tentatively reach for each other.
text: She abruptly pulls him to her, driving her face along the
text: sides of his throat, feeling his hair against her cheek.
text: He kisses her face and she swings her mouth to his - kisses
text: him hungrily.
text: As their hands explore each other's bodies...
text: Selma works her way across his chest - the first time she's
dialog: had this control in years - if ever at all.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (wry)
dialog: Been a while?
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: With men... yeah.
text: Beowulf gets it like the slap. She laughs.
text: She steers him back onto a bench, then raises her skirt and
text: straddles his lap.
text: He kisses back - finally getting the picture - and they tear
dialog: into each other... fiercely, rather like animals.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / PERIMETER -- NIGHT 126
text: All seems quiet but for...
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 126
dialog: 127
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 105.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 126
text: --.in the middle distance, a couple of GUARDS, who are
text: slightly drunk, jovial, relieved finally after all this
dialog: time...
text: In the foreground, Brendan shuffles along, loose with
dialog: drink...
speaker_heading: BRENDAN
dialog: I'm tellnya, Christ, y'thought the
dialog: Celts were work... But these - it's
dialog: one hand on their sword, the other
dialog: on their dick... Which hand they'll
dialog: use to cross themselves, I almost
dialog: fear to ask...
text: He looks up from the ground just as...
text: ---a huge HAND sweeps out from the dark at him...
text: .---and slaps his face... SNAPPING his neck.
text: He spins a step or so in a deadman's dance - then collapses
text: to the ground.
text: And a great SHAPE moves over him.
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 127
text: The oak doors edge open, and a [two-armed] troll edges in.
text: CLOSE ON: the shadowed face as it SNIFFS. Fierce black eyes
dialog: scan.
text: As the troll moves into the light from the fire-pit embers,
text: her breasts are discernible beneath her hide-shift, as is her
text: wild and grizzled mane: it's Grendel's mother - the SEA-HAG.
text: She's the same genesis as Grendel, slightly smaller - but
text: with greater vengeance. Bronze snaking arm-rings encircle
text: her powerful forearms.
text: She edges between the sleeping warriors, more cautious than
dialog: her son, till her eyes alight on...
text: -.--Grendel's arm nailed to the rafters.
text: Grief is quickly overwhelmed by fury. She tears the arm down
text: off its spike. As she turns...
text: ...the WARRIOR nearest to her stirs and looks up. She grabs
text: him by the throat, SHRIEKS, and throws him into the fire-pit.
text: A SECOND WARRIOR rises.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 127
dialog: 128
dialog: 129
dialog: 130
dialog: 131
dialog: 132
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 106.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 127
text: She swings her son's arm, clubbing the man to death.
text: As the warriors now struggle out of sleep, she strides
text: purposely for the door, her son's arm clutched under her own.
text: As she nears the door, Aeschere steps in front of her, sword
text: drawn, blocking her path.
speaker_heading: AESCHERE
dialog: Learn from your child, hag!
text: He swings his sword with all the strength he can muster...
text: ..-but she blocks it with her son's arm, the blade lodging in
text: the flesh. She snatches hold of Aeschere, and pulls him to
text: her in a lethal hug... the SOUND of his bones SNAPPING as she
dialog: does...
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- CONTINUOUS 128
text: LS: of the Sea-Hag lurching out of the hall, one arm carrying
text: Grendel's arm, the other dragging a corpse by the hair.
text: As she disappears into the dark...
text: REVEAL THE POV: as that of the feral child, hiding in nearby
dialog: rocks.
text: He pulls back and scurries away...
text: +--as wails and commotion rise from the hall.
scene_heading: INT. SELMA'S HUT -- NIGHT 129
text: Selma jerks up to sitting in her bed...
text: ..-finding the feral boy standing over her, fear on his
text: face...
text: ..-while Beowulf sleeps on, beside Selma.
text: Selma hurriedly dresses.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 130
speaker_heading: OMITTED 131
scene_heading: INT. MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 132
text: A wild-eyed Hrothgar, barefoot, in his nightclothes, is
text: moving through the mess of furniture and bodies.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 132
text: 133
dialog: 134
text: 135
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 107.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 132
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Aeschere! Aeschere!
text: Hrothgar's roaming gaze fixes on...
text: -.-an arm protruding from a shadowed corner, the hand
text: clenched to a splendid sword. Hrothgar recognizes it
dialog: immediately.
text: He bends, reaches for the arm...
text: ---and that is entirely what he gets: Aeschere's arm torn
text: from its socket... and no body in sight.
text: Hrothgar gasps horror, drops the arm, and staggers back, his
text: eyes glazing in shock.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 133
speaker_heading: OMITTED 134
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S HUT -- NIGHT 135
text: A CLUSTER of Geat horsemen wait while...
text: .--Beowulf straps on his gear, Breca beside him.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (to Breca)
dialog: We lose anymore?
text: Breca shakes his head, then indicates Unferth.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: But they did.
text: Unferth strides about the clearing, torch in hand, fiercely
text: staring into the dark.
text: He turns to the hut and starts setting it afire.
text: As the fire rises, Beowulf and Breca share a weary look, roll
text: their eyes.
text: Unferth vigorously swings the torch in the sign of the cross.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: (incensed)
dialog: By the holy word of Christ, never
dialog: again shall evil dwell here! By
dialog: the holy word of Christ, never
dialog: again shall evil dwell here!
dialog: (CONTINUED)
text: 135
dialog: 136
text: 137
dialog: 138
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 108.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 135
text: Beowulf mounts his horse.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: (low to Beowulf)
dialog: That what we got to look forward
dialog: to?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Maybe he'll go south.
text: And the two men lead the others away.
scene_heading: EXT. WILDS -- DAY 136
text: Across the brutal landscape...
text: ..--Beowulf, Unferth, and the band of Geat warriors follow the
dialog: blood-trail on horseback...
scene_heading: EXT. SHORELINE / COVE -- DAY 137
text: The warriors come down to the beach on which they previously
text: found the bloody signs of Grendel's death-throes. This time
dialog: they come upon...
text: «+-a blood-caked HEAD, propped on a stick. Breca rides up,
text: looks it over, turns back to Beowulf.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: It's Aeschere.
text: Unferth bolts forth on his horse, dismounts hurriedly, draws
text: his sword and waves it at the beach.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: Aeschere! We will right this
dialog: wrong! God will burn this devil-
dialog: bitch-fiend!
text: Breca eyes Beowulf who ever-so-slightly rolls his eyes.
text: Beowulf's scanning gaze finds...
text: ...the entrance to a cave which opens on the ocean.
scene_heading: INT. OCEANSIDE CAVE -- DAY 138
text: The troop move through the damp cave through which a water-
text: filled crevice runs, searching but finding no evidence of
dialog: Grendel or the hag.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 138
dialog: 139
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 109.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 138
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Nothing lives here.
text: They're about to leave, when Beowulf fixes on...
text: ..-where the crevice meets the sloping ceiling of the cave.
text: He bends low, peers along the water's edge. He climbs down
text: into the water.
speaker_heading: BRECA (CONT'D)
dialog: Beowulf?
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Cave doesn't end here. There's
dialog: outflow...
dialog: (indicates the cave-wall)
dialog: +..from the other side.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: I'll go.
text: Beowulf shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: You can't swim for shit.
text: They trade a smile. Beowulf takes a deep breath, and
text: descends into the water.
scene_heading: EXT. UNDERWATER / CHANNEL -- CONTINUOUS 139
text: Beowulf makes his way along the murky channel, the ceiling at
dialog: most a foot above the water, in many spots entirely
dialog: submerged...
text: «--the only light filtering up through the water from the
dialog: cave.
text: A wash of water smacks him against the rock.
text: He gulps water - chokes - gasps for air.
text: Clinging to an outcrop, he regains his breath. Continues on.
text: The ceiling now descends a foot into the water.
text: But - through the murk - he can make out some form of BLUISH
text: LIGHT bleeding through the water from beyond the next rock.
text: He steels himself, takes the deepest breath he can, then
text: dives down into the water, legs furiously kicking...
dialog: 140
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 110.
scene_heading: INT. SEA-HAG'S ICE-CAVE -- CONTINUOUS 140
text: Beowulf bursts up out of the water...
text: ...into an ice-cave, through one wall of which the outside
text: light faintly glows.
text: Cautiously he edges out of the water, onto the sand.
text: Against one wall is a pile of treasure, gilded weapons,
text: shields, and the skeleton heads of humans...
text: He continues on into the semi-dark of a rock passage and
text: almost stumbles over...
text: ...Grendel's corpse. The arm-socket wound has been sealed
text: with pitch... but too late for Grendel. Blood saturates the
dialog: sand.
text: A few feet away lies the great torn-off arm.
text: Beowulf turns the head by its hair, peers into the face...
text: ...when a SHRIEK comes from behind. He wheels...
text: .--and the Sea-Hag is upon him.
text: She wildly claws at him with one hand, while trying to stab
text: him with the knife she holds in the other.
text: Beowulf breaks free of her, swings with his sword, but it
text: hardly cuts through the walrus-hide.
text: She strikes out and her fingernails tear across his ribs. He
text: falls into the water, and she leaps upon him.
text: They wrestle, twisting under the surface...
text: ...then rise, Beowulf having slipped behind her and taken
text: hold of her hands...
text: She lurches backwards, smashing him against the rocks...
text: As his grip loosens, she swings him partway in front of her,
text: slashes down one arm with her knife... and his blood pours
dialog: from the wound...
text: Beowulf stumbles clear of the Sea-Hag, eyes...
text: +--a giant's sword in the treasure pile, of which he takes
text: hold.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 140
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 111.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 140
text: The Sea-Hag rushes toward him...
text: .-.-and he only has time to swing the blade upward...
text: ...Slashing across her neck and face.
text: She SCREECHES pain, twists about, eyes going blind, and
text: collapses into the water...
text: ..-blood gushing from her and staining the water..
text: +-+-as Beowulf collapses in the sand.
text: Beowulf trudges back to Grendel's corpse, stands over it...
text: ..-when he hears a sound - a living GASP - from behind him.
text: He wheels around...
text: ...but the Sea-Hag lies where she was, half her body in the
text: water, the other half in the sand.
text: Beowulf leaves Grendel, edges past the fire-pit toward the
text: darker recesses of the cave. Edging around a rock, he
text: sees...
text: «..the GLIMMER of a blade, and raises his own, prepared to
text: strike. As he moves another step forward, he's confronted
dialog: by...
text: CLOSE ON: the feral boy, hiding in the rocks, holding a
text: dagger out at Beowulf, terror in his tear-ridden eyes...
text: ..-but the boy then charges wildly, slashing with his dagger.
text: Beowulf shifts clear of the charge...
text: ---and the child continues over to the body of Grendel, where
text: he wheels around, squats down, dagger extended, protecting
text: the corpse.
text: Beowulf studies him a beat, Beowulf's sword still raised.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Your father.
text: It's unclear if it's a challenge or only confirmation.
text: The child, sensing it's the former, swallows, then defiantly
text: nods, preparing to be attacked.
text: Beowulf, eyes still frenzied, blinks through the blood on his
text: face. Shakes the dizziness from his head.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 140
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 112.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 140
text: Wipes the blood from his eyes with his arm... and now clearly
text: sees the child's fear.
text: He stares dully a long beat... his mind twisting around on
text: itself. Finally he softens, sighs, lets his sword drop to
text: his side.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF (CONT'D)
dialog: Then you can be proud.
text: The two study each other a beat...
text: ...then Beowulf turns, starts back toward the water.
text: A GASP to one side of Beowulf. He twists around to find...
text: ...the Sea-Hag, eyes blood-blinded, trudging slowly toward
text: him. He raises his sword, point held outward.
text: The Sea-Hag slows to a teetering stop several feet from him.
text: Her bloody hands vaguely explore the air before her.
text: Beowulf's expression softens...
text: ---and, in that moment, one of her hands snaps out, and grabs
text: hold of the extended blade.
text: Beowulf, transfixed, holds his ground.
text: The Sea-Hag then - incrementally - edges forward till the
text: blade-point touches her abdomen. She lets out a painful
text: breath.
text: And then, teeth clenched, she edges forward again.
text: She lets out a GASP as the sword penetrates her skin.
text: Her head falls back, the wild hair shifting off her face,
text: revealing features of fierce beauty.
text: Beowulf - overwhelmed and transfixed - lets go of the sword,
text: and shifts out of the way.
text: The Sea-Hag continues forward. Finally, the sword-hilt meets
text: the wall of the cave. She feels the resistance...
text: ..-drags in a breath...
text: ...then pushes forward, the sword moving through her, and
text: emerging out her back.
text: She sighs, staggers a couple steps, then falls back dead,
text: into the water.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 140
dialog: 141
dialog: 142
dialog: 143
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 113.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 140
text: ON: Beowulf, mesmerized. He looks over...
text: ...to Grendel's corpse and finds the child is gone.
text: Beowulf drops to a sitting position in the sand, his bloody
text: hands dangling off his bloody knees.
scene_heading: EXT. OCEANSIDE CAVE -- DUSK 141
text: Breca is grimly peering down into the water, through which a
text: shadow of blood now runs.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH -- CONTINUOUS 142
text: Unferth is on his horse... but the other Geat warriors have
dialog: yet to mount theirs.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH
dialog: What do I do - come back for you
dialog: tomorrow?
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: You'll never find your way in the
dialog: dark.
text: But the Geats aren't budging. Unferth shakes his head with
text: derision - but remains.
speaker_heading: UNFERTH (CONT'D)
dialog: As you wish.
scene_heading: INT. OCEANSIDE CAVE -- CONTINUOUS 143
text: Breca has built a small cairn of rocks on the sand. He
text: ceremoniously drives his sword down into the sand before it.
text: A SPLASH behind him. Breca wheels to find...
text: ..-Beowulf's head break the surface of the water.
text: Beowulf gasps air, blinks his eyes clear, sees Breca - and
text: smiles.
text: Breca scrambles over and gives him a hand up.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Her blood then?
text: Beowulf nods, then his gaze settles on the cairn of stones.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: (superstitious)
dialog: What the fuck's that?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 143
dialog: 144
text: 145
dialog: 145A
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 114.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 143
text: Breca boots over the cairn, pulls his sword free.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Just killing time.
text: And the two shuffle out towards the light.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIL -- NIGHT 144
text: A subdued procession of torch-lit Geats continues back to
dialog: Heorot...
text: ..-Beowulf holding Aeschere's severed head in his hands...
text: .--another horse carrying the headless corpse.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 145 *
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH VILLAGE / MEAD HALL -- NIGHT 145A *
text: Everyone is assembled for the pyre-burning of Aeschere. *
text: Surrounding the body are weapons, armour, and other gifts. *
text: Hrothgar comes up beside Beowulf.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: Valkyries will have their hands *
dialog: full with that old goat. *
text: Beowulf smiles, nods.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm sorry to have brought you to
dialog: all this.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: We brought ourselves.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR
dialog: At least now it's over.
text: Beowulf doesn't contradict him.
speaker_heading: HROTHGAR (CONT'D) *
dialog: That Celtic priest said I'd be
dialog: forgiven. I just need to hook the
dialog: right god.
dialog: (wry look / beat)
dialog: You ever worry on that? Heaven.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 145A
text: 146
dialog: 147
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 115.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 145A
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'm thinking I'll probably go where
dialog: I'm sent.
text: Hrothgar considers, nods. They share hard-won smiles.
scene_heading: EXT. WILDS -- DAY 146
text: Beowulf rides slowly along on horseback, scanning the rocky
text: outcrops... and WHISTLING a broken tune.
text: A WHISTLE comes back from over a ridge...
text: Beowulf stops, lets the silence settle a beat, whistles
dialog: again...
text: .---and, again, the whistle comes back.
text: Beowulf turns his horse off the trail and starts up the
dialog: ridge.
scene_heading: EXT. SELMA'S NEW CAMP -- DAY 147
text: WITH: Beowulf as he climbs up through forbidding rock...
text: .+-which opens into a small meadow in which he sees...
dialog: -.-Selma, constructing a new camp.
text: As he approaches, she pays little attention... a glance, at
dialog: best.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: You could've killed me the other
dialog: night.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: I know. I was horny.
text: Beowulf is once-again blindsided by her. He smiles, shakes
text: his head.
speaker_heading: SELMA (CONT'D)
dialog: It's not me who does it.
text: A chill runs through Beowulf. He broods a beat.
speaker_heading: SELMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Anything else you need to know?
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 147
dialog: 148
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 116.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 147
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: How you'll get along.
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: I mean without an eight-foot troll
dialog: to keep the dregs away.
dialog: (off her shrug)
dialog: You know they'll kill your son if
text: they find him.
text: Selma savages some wood with her axe.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: You couldn't.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: I'm not them.
speaker_heading: SELMA
dialog: No. You just killed his father.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hrothgar taught you nothing I
dialog: guess.
text: Beowulf considers this a bit. He moves towards her, raises a
text: hand to touch her... but she moves out of reach.
text: She picks up a bucket and strides off across the meadow...
text: .--Beowulf - torn - watching her go.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH -- DAY 148
text: The beach on which Grendel died.
text: Just above the high-tide line, a bonfire burns.
text: PULL BACK / REVEAL: Beowulf steadying the last few rocks on a
text: shoulder-high cairn.
text: He stands back from it, considers it a beat. Through the
text: smoke twisting around him, he "sees" without directly looking
dialog: up...
text: +.-mMovement in the rocks above him to one side.
text: He draws his sword, cuts off a braid of hair, and throws it
text: onto the fire.
text: He then drives his sword down into the sand at the base of
text: the cairn.
text: Drops to his knees before it.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 148
dialog: 149
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 117.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 148
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: Sleep, Grendel.
text: CLOSE ON: the feral boy, eyes tearing, watching the ceremony
dialog: for his dead father.
scene_heading: EXT. DANISH HARBOUR / BEOWULF'S LONGSHIP MOVING -- DAY 149
text: As Beowulf's longship moves out of the harbour...
text: ..-Beowulf stands with Breca and Thorfinn at the bow looking
text: out over the water.
text: Thorkel stands at the stern, facing the rowers, a Christian
text: cross at his throat...
speaker_heading: THORKEL
dialog: ..-born of scum and swampy things /
dialog: Lurking in his mother's moss / The
dialog: mark of Cain came to his brow / Of
dialog: evil and a sea-hag born / Grendel,
dialog: grinder of lost men's bones / Felt
dialog: hate toward the happy Danes...
text: WITH: Breca watching Thorkel...
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: Cain... what's that?
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Man who killed his brother in a
dialog: Christian tale.
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: What's Cain got to do with Grendel?
dialog: (off Breca's shrug)
dialog: Grendel kill his own brother too?
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: No, I think Thorkel's saying that
dialog: Grendel's just like Cain - a
dialog: killer.
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: We all are.
speaker_heading: BRECA
dialog: Yeah well...
speaker_heading: THORFINN
dialog: Thorkel's tale is shit.
dialog: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 149
dialog: Beowulf & Grendel - 10th dr. - Berzins - July 12/04 - 118.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: 149
text: Beowulf looks across to the shore, and sees through the
dialog: fog...
text: ...the feral child following along the rocks.
text: Beowulf watches as...
text: ...the child comes to the end of the rocky spit. The fog
text: clears enough to reveal, on the rocks several feet above
dialog: him...
text: ...Selma standing, driftwood in hand, also watching them go.
text: CLOSE ON: her face... and the ghost of a smile.
text: The fog thickens, mother and child disappearing into the
dialog: land.
text: Beowulf blinks, his eyes now watering. He wipes them, looks
dialog: again...
text: ..-but there's nothing visible but rock and water.
text: Beowulf turns his grim gaze back to the sea.
speaker_heading: BEOWULF
dialog: By Odin's will...
text: Unexpectedly to Beowulf, a chorus of voices of the other
dialog: Geats rise in the prayer:
speaker_heading: UNISON
dialog: ---let us find our way home.
text: Beowulf looks out over the others, all of whom are fixed on
dialog: him.
text: He nods, and turns his gaze...
dialog: ++-back out on the sea.
text: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: END END END
text: 
