dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BIG EYES
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Written by
dialog: Scott Alexander &amp; Larry Karaszewski
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
speaker_heading: TITLE SEQUENCE:
text: TIGHT on TWO PAINTED EYES. The pupils are impossibly wide.
text: Imploring. The watery rims spill a single tear.
text: We PULL OUT... revealing the eyes belong to a child. A young
text: girl, fingers clasped pitifully. She's forlorn, alone in a
text: dirty gray alley. We feel shame. Compassion. Sorrow...
text: Then -- an IDENTICAL girl SLAPS in front of the first one.
text: Then another! It's a PRINTING PRESS, the creation of a BLUR
dialog: of sad children.
text: A KINETIC montage! HORDES of gazing WAIFS get lithographed,
text: bundled: Huddling in worry. Floating in space. POSTERS.
scene_heading: POSTCARDS. BOOKS.
text: We ZOOM into a MAGAZINE AD: A 1960's era come-on -- "IT'S
scene_heading: KEANE! MUSEUM-QUALITY ART, MAILED DIRECTLY TO YOUR HOME!"
text: A blizzard of NEWSPAPER ARTICLES: "Meet America's Million-
dialog: Dollar Painter!" "Keane Masterpiece at World's Fair"
text: Painted EYES float by. Haunting... questioning...
text: Old POLAROIDS: A family Christmas, a Keane print over the
text: mantel. Kids play bumper pool, a Keane print in the b.g.
text: A blurry black-and-white TV: A talk show HOST holds up a Keane
scene_heading: PAINTING --
scene_heading: MUSIC BUILDS. FASTER. Keane brochures. Catalogs. A flyer:
dialog: "Now Open! Keane Gallery"
text: MORE orphan's faces. Hungry, unblinking, beseeching.
text: A CRESCENDO -- then -- SILENCE.
text: A single CARD on black:
dialog: "I think what Keane has done is just
dialog: terrific. It has to be good. If it
dialog: were bad, so many people wouldn't like
dialog: it."
scene_heading: -- ANDY WARHOL
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SUBURBIA - 1958
text: A nice, orderly tract of post-World War II housing. Identical
text: rows of little yards. Young MOMS. Scampering KIDS.
text: Then, a SUBTITLE: "TEN YEARS EARLIER"
dialog: 2.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - DAY
text: CU on two concerned eyes. The same eyes as the paintings. We
text: REVEAL they belong to a real girl: JANE, 8. She sits in her
text: small house -- a typical young family's, spare and
text: underfurnished.
text: Suddenly -- Jane's mother MARGARET ULBRICH, 28, rushes through
text: frame. Margaret is blonde, yearning, fragile. Terribly
text: upset, she is hurriedly packing.
text: Margaret throws her clothes in a suitcase.
text: She shoves Jane's clothes and toys into another.
text: Margaret barrels through the breakfast nook, which is a mini
text: art studio -- easel, canvases, paints. She scoops up her
dialog: supplies.
text: Margaret runs to the door -- then turns. The hallway is lined
text: with her PAINTINGS. Oils and inks of wide-eyed Jane, who
text: grows from baby to toddler to child. Hastily, Margaret takes
text: them down, each frame leaving an empty mark on the flowered
text: wallpaper. Finally she reaches the last spot -- a WEDDING
text: PHOTO: Margaret and her HUSBAND, smiling, happy.
text: Margaret peers -- then leaves it hanging. The door SLAMS.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
text: Cars roar down an interstate.
scene_heading: INT. PACKARD - DRIVING - DAY
text: Margaret grips the wheel, uncertain. Jane stares. The car is
text: all loaded up. REFLECTIONS of passing BILLBOARDS drift across
text: the windshield. Images of perky, happy-fake Americans.
text: Margaret bites her lip. Has she made the right decision...?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EST. SAN FRANCISCO - DAY
text: San Francisco, 1958! A mix of SKYLINES and STOCK FOOTAGE.
scene_heading: EXT. FURNITURE FACTORY - DAY
text: A weathered building: "G &amp; B FURNITURE SUPPLY." Margaret sits
text: in the Packard, fixing her lipstick. Jane holds the "WANT
text: ADS," a few circled. Margaret gets out and straightens her
text: skirt. Jane smiles.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Good luck.
dialog: 3.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. FURNITURE FACTORY - DAY
text: A beaten industrial office. Margaret sits anxiously, watching
text: the BOSS, a tired guy in a cheap suit. He glowers unsurely at
text: her JOB APPLICATION. Scratching his face. Hmmmm...
speaker_heading: BOSS
dialog: We don't get many ladies in here. So
dialog: your husband approves of you working?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (quiet; a soft Southern lilt)
dialog: My husband and I are separated.
speaker_heading: BOSS
speaker_heading: (SHOCKED)
dialog: "Separated"?
text: A deadly silence. He squirms uncomfortably.
text: She presses on.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Sir, I realize I have no employment
dialog: experience... but I sure need this
dialog: job. I have a daughter to support.
speaker_heading: (PAUSE)
dialog: I'm not very good at tooting my own
dialog: horn... but I love to paint, and if I
dialog: could just show you my portfolio...
text: He is baffled. Margaret pulls out a large ARTIST'S PORTFOLIO.
text: She opens it, riffling through the pictures...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I studied at the Watkins Art Institute
dialog: in Nashville, then took Illustration
dialog: classes in New York. Here's a pastel
dialog: I did... here's some fashion design...
dialog: a portrait in charcoal... though I
dialog: enjoy mixing mediums, preferably oil
dialog: and ink...
text: She's alive, enthused.
text: The guy shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BOSS
dialog: You do understand this is a furniture
dialog: company?
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - MARGARET
text: A strained smile.
dialog: 4.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. FACTORY FLOOR - LATER
text: Margaret works on an enamel baby crib. Under stenciled
text: "Humpty Dumpty," she quickly paints on a cartoonish egg man.
text: We WIDEN, revealing ten identical, completed cribs behind her.
text: We WIDEN again -- revealing a DOZEN PAINTERS. All surrounded
text: by identical cribs. All painting identical Humpty Dumpty's.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SAN FRANCISCO NORTH BEACH - 1958 - DAY
text: NORTH BEACH! An exotica of Beatniks, palm readers,
text: interracial couples and coffeehouses. Ground zero for the
text: Avant Garde. Margaret waits on a busy corner, a bit dazed,
text: peering at the parade of fun-loving Hipsters. Primly, she
text: fixes herself.
text: Margaret turns -- and suddenly grins. Running up is DEE-ANN,
text: 30, a Beat girl in a black leotard and sandals. Dee-Ann
text: excitedly grabs her, and they laugh and hug girlishly.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Sugar, you made it! You're in North
dialog: Beach!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Deirdre, look at you!
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
speaker_heading: (CORRECTING)
dialog: "Dee-Ann."
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: "Dee-Ann"?!
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Yeah, I know. But I hit this scene...
dialog: and "Deirdre" just sounded like
dialog: something my mother would call me.
text: Margaret giggles.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: So are you flipping for all this?!
dialog: Are you settled? How's Jane?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Jane -- is swell. She's started in a
dialog: sweet little school.
speaker_heading: (PAUSE)
dialog: Though... it's hard without her father.
dialog: I'm not sure we can do this...
text: The thought hangs, and Margaret gets emotional. Teary-eyed.
dialog: 5.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Oh stop that. You're better off.
dialog: Between us, I never liked Frank.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (SHOCKED)
dialog: You were a bridesmaid!
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Exactly. That's why I couldn't speak
dialog: up. But if I ever see you wrong off
dialog: again, I will tell you.
speaker_heading: (LONG BEAT)
dialog: Now come on. Let's have some fun.
text: WIDE - They start WALKING. Dee-Ann gestures.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Toss off your middle-class
dialog: preconceptions! This is Pompeii!
dialog: We're livin' in the volcano!! For
dialog: jazz, check up the hungry i. For
dialog: Italian, Vanessi's. For salvation,
dialog: try the Buddhist temple. For art, the
dialog: Six Gallery --
text: They pass a GALLERY. The displays are stark, Calder-like
text: MOBILES and found-object SCULPTURES. Margaret stares, unsure.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Do they only show Modern?
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Everyone only shows Modern!
speaker_heading: (SHE POINTS)
text: In the basement, they've got espresso.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What's espresso?
speaker_heading: (WORRIED)
dialog: Is that like reefer?
text: Dee-Ann LAUGHS, astounded.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: You've got a lot to learn!
scene_heading: EXT. ART SHOW - DAY
text: A Sunday ART SHOW. It's picturesque, amateur ARTISTS
text: displaying their paintings, jewelry, sculpture...
text: The modern stalls are crowded with trendy BOHEMIANS. Abstract
text: lines, speckles of color. We drift away... and find Margaret,
text: alone in her stall with Jane. Margaret sits patiently,
text: surrounded by Big Eye paintings and charcoal portraits. In
text: contrast with the neighbors, her work seems... quaint.
dialog: 6.
dialog: 
text: A pink, chubby TOURIST FAMILY ambles over. Margaret brightens
dialog: hopefully.
speaker_heading: TOURIST GUY
dialog: Your stuff is cute. How much?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Today's a special: Two dollars.
speaker_heading: TOURIST GUY
dialog: I'll give you one.
text: Beat -- then she nods, agreeing. She gestures.
text: The little BOY sits. Margaret clips a fresh sheet of paper,
text: sharpens her charcoal... and... goes motionless. Studying the
text: boy's face. He gazes back.
text: Then -- inspired, she begins sketching his EYES. Large and
text: exaggerated. Then she fills in the shape of his head. His
text: ears. His jaw.
text: In a rush, his likeness appears. The parents come over to
text: peek -- then gasp. Margaret is good. She sketches faster.
text: Focused. Until a LOUD, PLUMMY VOICE drifts in...
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE
dialog: Monet? "Monet"?! Whew -- that's a
dialog: hell of a compliment. Though, if I
dialog: may respectfully disagree, I'm more in
dialog: the tradition of Pissarro.
text: Margaret looks up, distracted. She resumes her work.
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE
dialog: C'mon, get closer. Closer! Look at
dialog: that sunlight coming through the
text: mottled leaves. That's a bold yellow!
text: Curious, Margaret casually peers over...
speaker_heading: HER POV
text: Holding court in another booth is WALTER KEANE, 40. Walter is
text: astonishing: Hugely confident. Charming. Waggishly
text: handsome. And dressed like an "Artist" -- striped turtleneck,
text: with hands full of brushes.
text: Walter's stall is filled with oils of Paris street scenes. He
text: casually flirts with TWO YOUNG COEDS. They admire a painting.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You wanna touch it? Do it! I lay it
dialog: on thick -- you're not gonna break it!
speaker_heading: (UNWAVERING)
dialog: I poured myself into that painting.
dialog: It's thirty-five dollars.
dialog: 7.
dialog: 
text: Walter glances over -- and notices Margaret watching him.
text: Shy, she quickly turns away, back to her portrait.
text: Walter smiles rakishly. He's found a new interest.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Excuse me, Ladies.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Walter strides up to Margaret. She peers nervously... trying
text: to ignore him. She sketches faster. Shading...
text: Walter watches. Admiring... and discreetly smelling her hair.
text: Margaret pays no attention. Done, she blows into a can of Fix-
text: It. Poosh! A fine mist sprays, setting the portrait.
text: Without fanfare, she humbly turns the picture.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: All finished.
text: Her customers gape, impressed. She smiles. The guy counts
text: out four quarters, then happily leaves.
scene_heading: MARGARET AND WALTER
text: are left together. An unspoken frisson, until --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You're better than spare change. You
dialog: shouldn't sell yourself so cheap.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I'm just glad they liked it.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ahhh! You're past that point! Your
dialog: heart is in your work...
text: He leans in, too close. Margaret shivers. Breathing faster.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What's your name?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: M-Margaret...
text: Mmm. He grins, checking her out... her loose sexy blouse and
text: tight black capris. She flushes.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Wouldn't you rather flirt with those
dialog: dolls over there?
dialog: 8.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Mm, no.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: I like you, Margaret...
text: He zeroes in on the artworks' signature: "M. Ulbrich"
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: "...Ulbrich."
speaker_heading: (IMPASSIONED)
dialog: You know, Margaret Ulbrich, you're
dialog: undervaluing yourself. Lemme show you
dialog: how it's done.
text: Walter spins to Jane. He SHOUTS out, like a carnival barker.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Little Girl! How would you like your
dialog: portrait sketched by the World-
dialog: Renowned Margaret Ulbrich?! Queen of
dialog: the Bay! In mere minutes, she will
dialog: capture your soul!
text: Hm. Jane shrugs, unimpressed.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Nah.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: "Nah"?!
dialog: (he grabs a PAINTING)
dialog: Don't you wish this were you in this
dialog: beautiful painting??
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: But that IS me! And that's me...
dialog: (she POINTS all over)
dialog: And that one started as me, but then
text: Mother turned it into a Chinese boy.
text: Huh? Walter peers at Jane... then at Margaret. And then --
text: it hits him. He grimaces, embarrassed.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Oh, you're Mommy! My apologies,
dialog: Honey. I misconstrued the situation.
speaker_heading: (SHEEPISH)
dialog: Well I'll just mosey along, before Mr.
text: Ulbrich comes back and socks me in the
dialog: eye.
speaker_heading: ON MARGARET
text: A gut decision. She stares at Walter, then smiles slyly.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Mr. Ulbrich is out of the picture...!
dialog: 9.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ON WALTER
text: His face slowly lights up. Ah! Sun breaking through clouds.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EST. FRENCH BISTRO - NIGHT
scene_heading: INT. BISTRO - NIGHT
text: An enchanting bistro. Wine barrels, laughing, twinkly tivoli
text: lights. Perfection. Walter flamboyantly enters, escorting
text: Margaret. Instantly, the STAFF ERUPTS in excitement:
dialog: "Monsieur Keane! Ah, Monsieur Keane is here! Bonsoir!"
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Bonsoir, gang! Henri! Sorry I didn't
dialog: call first. Est-ce que tout va bien?
speaker_heading: MAITRE'D
dialog: Je vais bien, merci! Comment allez-
dialog: vous?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Je vais bien! I'm with a beautiful
dialog: woman! Could life be any grander??
text: They get led in. Margaret is dazzled. Walter whispers.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: And I don't even have to pay! I'm set
dialog: because I gave the chef a painting.
dialog: You know what he said? "Nobody paints
dialog: Montmartre like Walter Keane!"
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Margaret and Walter enjoy an intimate dinner. The wine flows.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I can't believe you lived in Paris.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Best time of my life...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I've never even been on an airplane.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Well you have to experience these
dialog: things! Grab 'em!!
speaker_heading: (JOCUND)
dialog: I wanted to be an artist, so I just
dialog: went! Studied painting at the Beaux-
dialog: Arts. Lived in a Left Bank studio. I
dialog: survived on bread and wine...
dialog: 10.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You're a romantic.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Damn right!
text: A wistful shrug. He chugs his glass.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Of course, walkin' away from the
dialog: bourgeois scene wasn't a snap. I had
dialog: to quit my job. Leave my wife. These
dialog: choices aren't easy...
text: She stares at her wine.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I've never acted freely. I was the
dialog: daughter. The wife. The mother...
speaker_heading: (SHE SIGHS)
dialog: All my paintings are of Jane, because
dialog: she's all I know.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You shouldn't knock your work. I'd
dialog: give an eyetooth to have your talent.
text: Margaret is taken aback. He's absolutely sincere.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You can look into someone and capture
dialog: them on canvas! You paint people!
dialog: (he gestures sadly)
dialog: I can only paint -- things. My street
text: scenes are charming... but at the end
dialog: of the day, it's just a collection of
text: sidewalks and buildings.
text: Walter goes silent. He has revealed his fears.
scene_heading: ANGLE - MARGARET
text: She doesn't know what to say. Gently, she takes his hand.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter, I'd bet you could paint
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (INTENSE)
dialog: Whew... Baby, when you look at me
dialog: like that, I could fall hard.
text: Margaret gulps. Afraid to talk.
dialog: 11.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: This is moving fast. You're my first
dialog: date in a long time...
text: Neither of them speaks. The tension builds --
text: There is a spark between them...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PALACE OF FINE ARTS - DAY
text: A lush green knoll, overlooking the park. Margaret and Walter
text: have set-up TWO EASELS. They both smoke cigarettes. Margaret
text: is spattered with paint, stirring colors. Walter paces about,
text: framing the scene with his fingers.
text: Jane sits in front of them, playing paddleball. Bonk! Bonk!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Sweetie, could you stop fidgeting?
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Mother, after all this time, you MUST
dialog: know what my face looks like.
text: Margaret winces. Walter laughs. She gets busy, penciling in
text: LARGE OVAL EYES. Then -- quick marks for the mouth and nose.
text: Impatient, Jane spies on Walter's canvas.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Hey! Your canvas is blank!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Er, you can't rush inspiration --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Jane! Don't bother Mr. Keane. You
dialog: know creativity has to well up from
dialog: the inside...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Don't worry. She's not bothering
dialog: me...!
text: Walter leaves Jane. He points at Margaret's canvas.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: There's something I gotta ask you.
dialog: What's with the big crazy eyes...?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I believe things can be seen in eyes.
dialog: They're the windows of the soul --
dialog: 12.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yeah, but, c'mon! You draw 'em like
dialog: pancakes! I mean, they're WAY out of
dialog: proportion!
text: He's having fun, but she remains serious.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Eyes are how I express my emotions.
dialog: That's how I've always drawn them.
speaker_heading: (EARNEST)
dialog: When I was little, I had surgery that
dialog: left me deaf for a period. I couldn't
dialog: hear, so I found myself staring...
dialog: Relying on people's eyes...
text: She smiles shyly. Understanding, he smiles back. Then --
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Walter? Hey -- Walt!
text: Walter spins, startled. A FRIENDLY GUY in a suit strolls up.
speaker_heading: FRIENDLY GUY
dialog: I thought that was you!
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (EMBARRASSED)
dialog: Oh! Uh... er, hi, Don.
speaker_heading: FRIENDLY GUY
dialog: Boy, I'm glad to see you! Have we
dialog: heard back from the city, on that
dialog: setback? My guys really need the
dialog: variance, for the first floor retail.
text: Walter is mortified. He turns away from Margaret.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Um... we should hear from Permits by
dialog: Thursday.
speaker_heading: FRIENDLY GUY
dialog: Yeah? Well that's terrif'! I'll tell
dialog: the architects!
text: Pleased, the guy cheerily strides away.
scene_heading: ON WALTER AND MARGARET
text: He is stricken. Something ominous just happened.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What was that??
dialog: 13.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (ASHAMED)
dialog: I -- I didn't want you to know...
text: A long, horrible pause. Walter's face turns gray. We SLOWLY
text: PUSH IN. This revelation is churning. Agony.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm in commercial real estate.
text: A stunned beat.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You're a -- Realtor?
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (CONTRITE)
dialog: YES! A hugely successful Realtor!
dialog: Top earner in the Downtown office
dialog: three years running!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: And you're... ashamed?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Of course! Any blockhead can arrange
dialog: a sublet!
speaker_heading: (HEARTFELT)
dialog: All I ever wanted was to support
dialog: myself as an artist...
speaker_heading: (SAD; BEAT)
dialog: I tried to make a clean break, but
dialog: couldn't cut it. I'm just a goddam
text: Sunday painter. An amateur.
text: Margaret looks at him, touched by his vulnerability.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MARGARET'S APARTMENT - DUSK
text: End of the day. Golden light slants in through the windows of
dialog: this small tidy apartment.
text: The door opens. Margaret holds it for Walter, who
text: chivalrously staggers in, carrying all her supplies: Easel,
text: paints, cans. He carefully puts it all down -- then turns.
text: Beat. Walter stares at Margaret, their faces caught in the
text: warm light. Then, enchanted, he kisses her.
dialog: Silence.
text: Margaret smiles, captivated. Caught in his glow. The moment
dialog: could last forever...
dialog: 14.
dialog: 
scene_heading: IN THE DOORWAY
text: Jane stares unhappily. Threatened.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: A-hem!
speaker_heading: ON MARGARET
text: She turns, startled. Feeling guilty, Margaret rushes from
text: Walter. Busying herself, she skims through the MAIL.
text: Jane shakes her head and marches out.
text: Margaret flips through envelopes -- until one stops her. On
text: edge, she slowly removes an official DOCUMENT. She scans
text: it... and her face drops. Crushed. Something terrible...
text: Walter is worried.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What's wrong...?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (SOFT)
text: Frank wants to take away Jane. He
dialog: says I'm an unfit mother...
text: Walter is taken aback.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You're a perfect mother.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: He told the court Jane doesn't have a
dialog: proper home. It's beyond my abilities
dialog: as a single woman...
text: Margaret trails off, shaken.
text: Walter gulps unsurely. Then, he takes her in his arms. We
text: SLOWLY PUSH IN.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Marry me.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (SHE GASPS)
dialog: Walter! I --
speaker_heading: WALTER
text: (he puts a finger to her lips)
dialog: Shh. Don't think of a reason to say
dialog: no. 'Cause I've got a million reasons
dialog: to say yes.
dialog: (he gives a winning smile)
dialog: I know it makes no sense!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: WALTER (CONT'D)
dialog: But just think of the fun we'll
dialog: have..! And I'll take care of you
dialog: girls.
text: Margaret stammers, speechless. She doesn't know what to say.
text: Walter pulls out his ace. In a debonair move, he creakily
text: drops to his knee. He exudes a hammy, wonderful romance:
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Margaret, I'm on my knee! C'mon,
dialog: whatdya say? Let's get married! We
dialog: can be in Hawaii by the weekend.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: "Hawaii"? M-marriage?
speaker_heading: (EMOTIONAL)
dialog: Walter, I'm crazy about you... but I'm
dialog: overwhelmed. Why would we go to
dialog: Hawaii?!
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (BEGUILING)
dialog: Because you're a princess... and you
dialog: deserve to get married in paradise.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - MARGARET
text: Margaret shudders, tears in her eyes. Hawaiian MUSIC begins...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: STOCK FOOTAGE - DAY
text: A propeller-driven PAN AM airplane soars through the sky.
scene_heading: EXT. HAWAII - DAY
text: Hawaii, 1958. Heaven on earth. Blossoming flowers, rare
text: birds, lush greenery. Margaret is experiencing total bliss.
text: We widen. She and Walter stand in front of a waterfall,
text: getting married. Jane is Maid-of-Honor. A PRIEST smiles, and
text: Walter places a ring on Margaret's finger. They kiss.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH - SUNSET
text: Margaret and Walter lie on the sand, making out. Cuddling,
text: running their fingers along each other's bodies. She stares
text: up, endlessly happy.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You're right... this is paradise.
dialog: Only God could make those colors.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I knew you'd love it.
dialog: 16.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Oh, can't we stay here forever??
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Well, I don't know about forever. But
dialog: maybe... I can arrange another week.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL GROUNDS - DAY
text: Thatched umbrellas, Polynesian fun. Margaret is set-up,
text: drawing PORTRAITS of the GUESTS. Walter regales them as they
text: wait. Joking, gregariously handing out Mai-Tais.
text: Margaret finishes a picture. She beams at Walter... then
text: signs the picture "KEANE."
text: Walter gapes, astonished at this gesture. Margaret lock eyes
text: with him. She smiles girlishly, radiating happiness.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - DAY
text: Old school Cantonese: Dragons and red lacquer. Margaret eats
text: lunch with Dee-Ann, showing off SNAPSHOTS from the trip.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: This is a waterfall... the air was so
dialog: fresh you could taste it. Here's an
dialog: ancient altar... that statue is Kane,
dialog: the god of creation. I said a prayer
dialog: to him. Oh! Here's Walter and Janie,
dialog: building a sandcastle --
text: Dee-Ann raises an eyebrow.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: This is all happening mighty quick.
dialog: In the time you moved here, I've had
dialog: two dates. You're already married.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (SHE GIGGLES)
dialog: I thought there was a void in my life.
dialog: Well... Walter's filled it.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Walter's filled a lot of things. He's
dialog: diddled every skirt on the art circuit.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You're talking about my husband!
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: I know! That's why I brought it up.
text: Margaret frowns, insulted.
dialog: 17.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I'm not naive.
dialog: (beat; she laughs)
dialog: Well, I am naive. But I know the man
dialog: I'm marrying. Walter can act rash...
dialog: but he's a good provider. And he's
dialog: wonderful with Jane.
speaker_heading: (CLEAR-EYED)
dialog: Look -- we're both looking for a fresh
dialog: start. I'm a divorcee with a child.
dialog: Walter is a blessing.
text: Dee-Ann bites her tongue. The WAITER brings over the check.
text: Sitting on it are TWO FORTUNE COOKIES.
text: Hm. Margaret stares, utterly serious. She reaches for one...
text: then impulsively grabs the other. She cracks the cookie. Dee-
text: Ann waits, curious. Margaret reads... then slowly smiles.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: "You are on the threshold of untold
dialog: success."
scene_heading: INT. ART GALLERY - DAY
text: A Modish, happening gallery. The white walls are hung with
text: ABSTRACT EXPRESSIONISM: Slashing angles of color, painted over
text: rags and glued bolts. On the floor is SCULPTURE made from
text: wood and wire.
text: In charge is RUBEN, a fussy man in a goatee. He's schmoozing
text: a FANCY LADY. They look at a spattered, distorted painting.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: What's brilliant about the composition
text: is its spontaneity. The image has no
text: visual center of attention.
speaker_heading: FANCY LADY
dialog: It's quite gestural.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Oh definitely! Strongly influenced by
dialog: the tachistes.
speaker_heading: FANCY LADY
dialog: I heard Tab Hunter was in here,
text: looking at one.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Well... I'm not allowed to say...
text: He NODS HIS HEAD up-and-down: Yes, you're right.
speaker_heading: OUTSIDE
text: A car backfires. Ruben turns -- and winces.
dialog: 18.
dialog: 
text: Through the windows is Walter, climbing out of his massive
text: white Cadillac. He's all done up, in beret and scarf. He
text: opens the giant trunk and removes a pile of paintings.
text: Ruben cringes knowingly. He whispers:
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Oh Christ, don't come in here. Please
dialog: don't come in here...
text: The door SLAMS. Walter loudly barges in.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ruben, good day! Do you got a minute?
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Walter. In polite society, the word
dialog: is "appointment."
speaker_heading: FANCY LADY
dialog: (glancing back and forth)
dialog: Uh, I could come back later...
text: She anxiously hurries for the door. Ruben fumes.
text: Walter ignores it all and starts laying out his wares. First,
text: the Parisian street scenes, one after another...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You're gonna love my stuff today.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Haven't I seen that one before?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Nah! That was painted in the Fifth
dialog: Arrondissement. This is the Sixth
dialog: Arrondissement!
speaker_heading: RUBEN
speaker_heading: (SKEPTICAL)
dialog: I don't understand. You lived in
dialog: Paris for a week. How can you still
dialog: be cranking out paintings?
text: Walter laughs. He points to his head.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: It's all up here.
dialog: (beat; a sentimental
speaker_heading: FLOURISH)
dialog: And here.
text: He points to his heart. Ruben frowns and points to the wall.
dialog: 19.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Well, it's not going up here.
speaker_heading: (CRUEL)
dialog: Walter, you know we don't go for that
dialog: representational jazz! You're too
dialog: literal.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (HURT)
dialog: Hey, Art isn't fashion!
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Yes it IS!
speaker_heading: (CUTTING)
dialog: People want Kandinsky, or Rothko!
dialog: They don't want goopy street scenes.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - WALTER
dialog: Ouch! This stings terribly.
text: Walter glares at the man, then softly slides aside his works.
text: Quietly, he pulls out Margaret's Big Eye paintings.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Would they want... this?
speaker_heading: RUBEN
speaker_heading: (HE SHUDDERS)
dialog: Good God! You've entered a new
dialog: period.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: No... they're my wife's.
text: Fascinated, Ruben glances through Margaret's oils. Canvas
text: after canvas of sad kiddies against gray, bleak backgrounds.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Why are their eyes so big?! They're
text: like big stale jellybeans.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (SNIDE)
dialog: It's Expressionism. Surely you
dialog: recognize it.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
speaker_heading: (LONG BEAT)
dialog: Well -- I'm just glad you two found
dialog: each other.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: So... what do you say?
text: Ruben looks up, amazed. Walter seems oblivious.
dialog: 20.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: I say, NO! It's not art.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (HORRIFIED)
dialog: Not -- "art"??
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: It's like the back of a magazine!
dialog: "Draw the turtle! Send in a nickel
dialog: and win the Big Contest!"
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: How dare you! Lots of people would
dialog: like this.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Well, nobody who's walking through the
dialog: door of this gallery!
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Now please! Clear out this clutter,
text: before the taste police arrives.
text: Walter's jaw drops.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HUNGRY I MARQUEE - NIGHT
dialog: "The hungry i" -- the hottest nightclub around, so hip it's in
text: a basement. The marquee says "Cal Tjader, TONIGHT!"
scene_heading: INT. HUNGRY I SHOWROOM - NIGHT
text: A swinging mob of BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE -- suits, gowns and pearls.
text: CAL TJADER'S BAND is crazed: Vibes and bongo-driven JAZZ.
text: Margaret and Walter are squeezed at a table. She nurses a
text: Grasshopper. Walter's in a foul mood, CHUGGING cocktails.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: We'll never break in...! Because
dialog: there's a CABAL. A secret society of
dialog: gallery owners and critics, who get
dialog: together for Sunday brunch in
dialog: Sausalito, deciding what's "cool."
speaker_heading: (BROODING)
dialog: They're like Freemasons. No, worse!
dialog: McCarthy, in his hearings: "That
dialog: painter, I anoint. That painter, I
dialog: banish to nowheresville!"
text: Heartfelt, Margaret disagrees.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I think people buy art because it
dialog: touches them --
dialog: 21.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Heh! You're livin' in fairy land!
dialog: People don't get to discover a thing.
dialog: They buy art, because it's in the
dialog: right place at the right time.
text: O.s., MUSIC BUILDS. Muddled, Walter turns. He looks -- and
text: then -- his eyes light up. He is getting an idea...
speaker_heading: ONSTAGE
text: The band speeds to a climax, the percussion throbbing. Then,
text: a final, crazed note. BAM!!
text: The crowd APPLAUDS. The club's owner, ENRICO BANDUCCI, bounds
text: on stage. Banducci is a theatrical, natty Italian guy with a
text: skinny moustache and loud personality. He grabs a mike.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: Give it up for Cal Tjader! That set
dialog: was HUMMIN'! Al-aright, be sure to
dialog: stick around for the one a.m. show!
text: The house lights come up. Banducci hops down, greeting
text: guests, making his way out -- when Walter glides up.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Hey, Banducci. I love the music
dialog: tonight. It's a gas.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: Oh. Thanks, thanks.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm Walter Keane. I'm a painter.
speaker_heading: (KNOWING)
dialog: I was looking at your walls, and
dialog: they're pretty plain.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: Really? Hm...! Maybe you're right.
dialog: What color were you thinking?
text: Huh? Walter holds his composure.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: No -- I'm an artist. I used to be
dialog: based on the Left Bank. But now I've
dialog: relocated to the "States," and I'm
dialog: looking for an... exhibition venue.
text: Beat. Banducci frowns.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: I like my club the way it is. Your
dialog: stuff's so hot, go put it in a museum.
dialog: 22.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Okay! I respect that. You're a
dialog: businessman, not a charity! So how
dialog: 'bout if I, uh... rented your walls?
text: Hm?! Banducci raises an eyebrow.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BERKELEY APARTMENT - DAY
text: Walter's swanky pad is CHAOS, filled with cameras and lights.
text: A PHOTOGRAPHER runs around, tweaking equipment.
text: Walter's at an easel, putting the final touches on a PAINTING
text: of a French street scene. He gabs on the PHONE.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yes! The paintings are available for
dialog: public viewing daily, from 7 to 3!
dialog: (an awkward beat)
text: Er, no. 3 a.m. It's in a nightclub.
dialog: (he hangs up)
dialog: Maggie! It's promotion time! We
dialog: gotta lay the racket!
text: Margaret puts on a smock, a bit dumbfounded. Walter spatters
text: some paint on his shirt. He grins, then holds up his brush
text: and SIGNS the painting: "W. KEANE"
text: Margaret forces a "cheese" smile, with her Waif. FLASH! The
text: camera pops.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HUNGRY I - NIGHT
text: CU - A cheery BROCHURE, "Meet the Keanes!" There's a staged
text: PHOTO: Walter at his street scene, Margaret at her Waif.
text: Then -- a SHOE steps on it. We WIDEN... revealing the
text: brochure on the sticky floor of...
text: THE CLUB! It throbs with frolicking CUSTOMERS. We move
text: through the pack. To a rear concrete hallway... to a sign
text: with an arrow: "TOILETS." We go down the hall... into...
scene_heading: A DINGY CORRIDOR
text: The Keane paintings hang here. The only human in sight is
text: Walter, forlorn at a card table. Brochures are stacked, and
text: he wears a sailor coat with a dandyish ascot.
text: The image is grim. Walter listens to the raucous mob. Until,
text: THUMP! -- a sloshed MAN stumbles in. Walter brightens and
dialog: stands.
dialog: 23.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ah, beautiful! An art lover! Yes
dialog: sir, how may I help you?
speaker_heading: MAN
speaker_heading: (UNCLEAR)
dialog: I'm, uh, just looking for the john.
text: A terrible pause. Walter swallows his outrage... then points.
text: The guy smiles and tosses Walter a BUCK, as a tip. Walter is
text: stunned. The guy toddles away.
text: Beat. The Ladies Room opens, and TWO GOSSIPY WOMEN rush out,
text: oblivious to Walter. He glowers. ANOTHER MAN bounds in,
text: right up to one of Walter's paintings! He stops at it.
text: Walter gathers a moment of hope. Does he like it?
text: Then the man leans down and opens a CLOSET. He removes a tray
text: of bar glasses, kicks the door shut, and scoots away.
speaker_heading: ANGLE - WALTER
text: He grimaces... beaten. Walter drops his head on the table.
text: Not noticing a DRUNK COUPLE stagger in. They pass a Waif,
text: then halt -- taken. They lean in. Enthralled... concerned...
speaker_heading: TIPSY LADY
dialog: Look at that child. She's so sad.
speaker_heading: TIPSY MAN
dialog: Is she poor..?
speaker_heading: TIPSY LADY
dialog: She's forgotten! It just makes me
dialog: want to cry.
dialog: (she peers at the
dialog: signature, then turns)
dialog: Are you "Keane"?
text: Walter lifts his head from the table.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: TIPSY LADY
dialog: Well you're a hell of a painter.
text: Walter squints, confused, then beams. Joy! Happiness
text: bursting like a little child.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Why, thank you...! Thank you so much!
dialog: 24.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TIPSY LADY
dialog: Your work is very powerful. There's
text: so much emotion in those eyes.
text: OUCH! Walter's smile collapses.
speaker_heading: TIPSY LADY
dialog: Is something wrong?
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (REELING)
dialog: Huh? Uh... no. No. I just didn't
dialog: realize you meant... the waif.
speaker_heading: TIPSY MAN
dialog: (beat; he CHUCKLES)
dialog: Oh, I get it...! The artist doesn't
dialog: wanna part with his favorite piece...
text: The man winks, then pulls out a WAD OF BILLS.
text: Walter stares morosely.
scene_heading: INT. HUNGRY I - LATER
text: Walter sits at the bar, toasted, drinking. In a dark place.
text: His misery is interrupted by happy Banducci, groping two GALS.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: Hello, Picasso! Nice crowd, eh?
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (SOUR)
dialog: You wouldn't know it from that broom
dialog: closet you parked me in.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: Hey, it's prime thoroughfare! People
dialog: drink, they gotta relieve themselves.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (MUTTERING)
dialog: "Location, location, location..."
text: Walter wallows in self-loathing. Suddenly, he explodes.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: It's INSULTING! When people see art,
dialog: they shouldn't think of SHIT!
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
speaker_heading: (SHOCKED)
dialog: Whoah! Watch it with the purple
dialog: language. We got ladies present --!
text: Banducci PUSHES Walter away.
dialog: 25.
dialog: 
text: In reaction, Walter sloppily SMACKS him.
text: Riled, Banducci suddenly takes a SWING! Walter stumbles, and
text: Banducci's punch accidently HITS the GIRL.
text: Ow! She topples. Walter gasps.
text: He SWATS Banducci -- then RUNS! Cameras FLASH. Wild whoops.
text: Walter barrels down the hall, Banducci chasing. The brawl's
text: gone nuts. Walter grabs a Waif and SMASHES it over Banducci's
text: head. CRASH! Banducci drops.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSERT - SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER
text: The front page! A small headline says "BISTRO BRAWL: BANDUCCI
text: AND ARTIST SLUGFEST." Below are two PHOTOS: Walter mid-punch,
text: and Banducci unconscious, sticking out of the Big Eye.
scene_heading: EXT. POLICE STATION - DAWN
text: A neighborhood precinct, quiet at 6 a.m. Doors open, and
text: Margaret leads Walter out. She's seething. He's bruised,
text: with a mortified drunk-tank, slept-in-my-clothes swagger.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I've never posted bail before.
text: Silence. He has no idea what to say. His aplomb crumbles.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm -- I'm sorry. Banducci... laughed
dialog: at our work. ...So I socked him.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Since when are you thin-skinned?
dialog: Artists have to handle criticism.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You're right! I know. But... I was
dialog: already in a bad place. I'd had a
dialog: couple... and earlier...
speaker_heading: (PAUSE)
dialog: I let some guy think I painted your
dialog: Big Eye.
text: Beat. Margaret is stupefied.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I don't understand. Why would you do
dialog: such a thing?!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: It was a misunderstanding. And then,
dialog: I didn't want to jinx the sale.
dialog: 26.
dialog: 
text: He shrugs feebly. She frowns.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Don't ever do it again.
scene_heading: INT. HUNGRY I - NIGHT
text: The club is a ZOO. PARTYERS swarm the door, trying to enter.
text: Suddenly, Walter pushes his way down the outside stairs. The
text: DOORMAN starts to protest, but Walter somberly waves him off.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Don't give me a hard time. I'm just
dialog: grabbing my stuff...
text: Across the packed room, he spots Banducci with a black eye.
text: Walter halts, uncertain. A bristling tension...
text: Until -- Banducci suddenly rushes and GRABS him! Walter
text: flails, freaked. Banducci DRAGS him into a back kitchen --
scene_heading: INT. CLUB KITCHEN
text: Banducci shuts the door, looks around... then suddenly LAUGHS!
text: He grins manically and pulls Walter into a hearty HUG.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: Can you believe this? We're sold out,
dialog: and I don't even have a headliner!!
speaker_heading: (GLEEFUL)
dialog: Hell, it's a Monday!
text: Walter blinks, lost. Banducci explains.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: Dope, we made the front page!! People
dialog: are here, cause they wanna see the
dialog: sappy paintings that made grown men
dialog: fight!!
text: A moment of discombobulation... until -- Walter slowly grins.
scene_heading: INT. CLUB - SECONDS LATER
text: The two men suddenly tumble into view, SCREAMING.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'll see you in COURT, you son of a
dialog: bitch! I'm suing you for assault!
dialog: Slander! False arrest!!
text: Banducci storms away.
text: Walter shudders, "upset." CUSTOMERS peer at him... then at
text: the paintings. Curious, they migrate that way...
dialog: 27.
dialog: 
text: Walter glances sideways. Gauging their reactions...
text: Until -- a swinging middle-aged guy in horn rims and a suit
text: lopes up. DICK NOLAN: A man who hides his bored emptiness
text: under a veneer of booze and broads. Dick leans in.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Yes sir! Whew. That was quite a load
dialog: of horseshit you gents were layin' out
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: (LONG BEAT)
dialog: Dick Nolan. The Examiner.
text: Walter freezes up. Until -- Dick grins conspiratorially.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Hey pal, don't lose any sleep. I eat
dialog: this stuff with a spoon! It gives me
dialog: something to type about, in my column.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: (he laughs, relieved)
dialog: I thought you only did celebrities.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Well, Banducci's famous -- and you hit
dialog: him! So you're a celebrity, once-
dialog: removed.
speaker_heading: (HE CHUCKLES)
dialog: Buy me a drink?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Huh? Uh, sure --
text: Dick smoothly drags him to the bar. Dick waves the bartender.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Gary! I'll have a Ward Eight, in a
dialog: frosted high boy. My friend'll have
dialog: the same.
text: (he beams, then turns)
dialog: So! Walter, tell me about your work --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Well, when I was in Paris...
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Jesus, not those! I mean the little
dialog: hobo kids.
text: What?! Walter frowns, peeved. He considers this indignity...
text: then decides to stomach it. He smiles fakely, effusively.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What do you wanna know...?!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 28.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BERKELEY APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT
text: Margaret is asleep. Suddenly Walter bursts in, drunk and
text: jocular. He FLIPS on the lights.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ding-a-ling! Wake up, we're a HIT!
text: Margaret rolls over, groggy. Walter jumps on the bed,
text: grinning. He tosses her a HANDFUL OF MONEY.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What a night! I sold out all your Big
dialog: Eyes!!
text: She rubs her eyes, amazed.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: There must be two-hundred dollars...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: They adore you! Cause of that
dialog: article, the joint was PACKED. And
dialog: then, a famous journalist showed up,
dialog: and -- I need more paintings! Now!
text: He hungrily KISSES her. She laughs.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter, they take at least a week.
text: There's layering, shading --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Of course! But, this is opportunity!
dialog: Ah, we're gonna make a crackerjack
dialog: team: Me schmoozing up the club, while
dialog: you're back here, doing what you love!
text: She stares at him -- then smiles. MUSIC...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Margaret happily paints away. At peace, lost in her art...
scene_heading: INT. HUNGRY I - NIGHT
text: Walter sells Big Eyes. Shoving cash into a cigar box.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - DAY
text: Margaret works, HUMMING serenely. On the easel is a half-
text: finished blonde girl in a blue dress.
dialog: 29.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TAILOR'S - DAY
text: Walter buys a new suit. A TAILOR measures him.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT
text: Margaret finishes painting a sad boy, using a fine brush to
text: add a watery rim to his eyes. Magically, this detail brings
text: the picture to life. She's pleased.
text: Margaret signs "KEANE." There are two finished canvases, the
text: sad little girl and boy. Margaret smiles, her heart swelling.
text: She loves them. Then, she looks about. Nobody is there to
dialog: share the moment.
text: Hm. She thinks -- then picks up the PHONE. She dials.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Mrs. Cava, I'm sorry to bother you so
dialog: late... but would you mind watching
dialog: Jane?
scene_heading: INT. TAXI - NIGHT
text: Margaret rides in the back seat, smiling, her gaze faraway.
text: She proudly hugs the bundled paintings to her chest.
scene_heading: INT. HUNGRY I - NIGHT
text: The club is pounding. Margaret enters the throng, carrying
text: her work. She looks up -- and has her breath taken away. The
text: ENTIRE CLUB, EVERY WALL, IS NOW HUNG WITH KEANE PAINTINGS!
text: Whoa...! Pure joy envelops her.
text: Then -- she gets jostled. Margaret notices Walter holding
text: court with some GROUPIES. She approaches, unnoticed:
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: ...yeah, eyes are powerful. A poet
dialog: said they're the windows of the soul.
text: Margaret smiles, touched. She comes closer....
speaker_heading: GROUPIE
dialog: They hold so much feeling.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You got it! That's why I paint 'em so
dialog: big.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: I've always done it that way.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - MARGARET
text: She GASPS, stunned. The room starts spinning.
dialog: 30.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: HER POV
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: If you like this style, I'm working on
dialog: a few new pieces. I've got a little
dialog: blonde girl in a blue dress that'll
dialog: tear your heart out.
scene_heading: ANGLE - MARGARET
text: Her face goes ashen. Dizzy, she clutches for support.
text: What to do?? Overcome, she shrinks away... disappearing...
text: ending up alone in a corner. She cowers, childlike.
scene_heading: ACROSS THE ROOM
text: Walter LAUGHS at a joke, then backslaps the group. He
text: jovially strides away... passing by Margaret... when --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter...?
text: He spins -- shocked at her presence.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Baby!
speaker_heading: (DISCOMBOBULATED)
dialog: Hey, uh, what are you doing here? I
speaker_heading: UM --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Why are you lying?
text: For once, Walter has no answer.
text: She bores in, emotions racing. Confused. Hurt.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You're taking credit for something
dialog: that isn't yours.
text: He looks ill. Wheels spinning, looking for an out --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I was... trying to close the deal --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Those children are part of my being!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm just a salesman! You know, buyers
dialog: pay more if they meet the painter --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: They couldn't meet me, because you
dialog: told me to stay home!!
dialog: 31.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Shh, QUIET!
text: He grabs her, pulling her behind a curtain. He's desperate.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Don't blow this! Look, we're makin'
dialog: money! Your pocket, my pocket?
dialog: What's the difference?!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (TREMBLING)
dialog: You take this so lightly --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Not all all! But it's not about ego!
dialog: You wanna say you did the street
dialog: scenes? Fine! I don't care! Say a
dialog: monkey painted it!
text: She breaks into tears, sobbing.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I'm glad you can dash off your pieces
dialog: without any emotional connection...!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ah, honey! I just wanna share them
dialog: with the world!
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Would you rather have your children
text: piled in a closet... or hanging in
dialog: someone's living room?
dialog: Silence.
dialog: Then -- FLASH! FLASH! FLASH!
text: Walter turns. And -- his eyes pop, astonished.
speaker_heading: AT THE DOOR
text: Is an incredible sight. Like a moment from "La Dolce Vita," a
text: fabulously dressed ITALIAN MAN with THREE BLONDES floats down
text: the stairs, into the club. Cameras FLASH.
text: Walter gapes, transfixed. He grabs Banducci.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Hey. Who is that remarkably handsome
dialog: and confident man?
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI
dialog: That's Dino Olivetti -- as in Olivetti
dialog: typewriters.
speaker_heading: (HE SMIRKS)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: BANDUCCI (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't even try, Walter. He doesn't
dialog: speak a lick of English.
text: Walter stares hungrily.
speaker_heading: ANGLE - OLIVETTI
text: glides into the club -- a vision of perfection with his slick
text: hair and sunglasses. He approaches closer, closer... when he
text: gets distracted. By one of Margaret's Big Eye PAINTINGS.
text: Walter gasps. He nudges Margaret.
text: Olivetti peers at the artwork. Intrigued. Then -- excited.
text: He starts gesturing and yapping in ITALIAN. The Blondes shout
text: back. Everyone is getting worked-up.
text: The big-bosomed Blonde turns to Walter.
speaker_heading: EUROPEAN BLONDE
text: Mr. Olivetti is enchanted with the
dialog: painting. He would like to know...
dialog: who is the artist?
scene_heading: ANGLE - MARGARET AND WALTER
text: The moment of truth. Margaret opens her mouth... and no sound
text: comes out. She clenches up. Stomach tight. Mute.
text: Walter gives her a second -- tick tock tick tock. Then -- he
text: leaps into Opportunity. He SMACKS his hands.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I am!
text: Walter swoops over and grabs Olivetti in a hearty clasp.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: It's a delight to meet you, Signore!
dialog: Buon giorno! Have you been an art
dialog: lover for long..?
text: We move in tight on MARGARET, as the SOUND DIALS DOWN.
speaker_heading: WALTER'S VOICE
dialog: I call that piece "The Waif." Isn't
dialog: it striking? With its juxtaposition
dialog: of girl, cat, and stairs... and its
dialog: almost Flemish use of underpigment...
text: The SOUND dims... then goes SILENT.
text: Margaret stares in shock, unmoving.
text: Time seems to stop. She is frozen in grief. Until --
dialog: 33.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER'S VOICE
dialog: Baby! Baby! Can you believe it?!!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: MINUTES LATER
text: Time has passed. Walter happily clutches Margaret.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: We made five grand!! Five THOUSAND
dialog: dollars...!!!
speaker_heading: (GIDDY)
dialog: And that wasn't even one of your good
dialog: ones!
text: Margaret blinks, lost.
text: In the b.g., Olivetti holds the painting, now wrapped-up in
text: newspaper and twine. A pleased customer.
text: Margaret's face darkens.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Don't you mean... one of your good
dialog: ones?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: No. No no! One of -- OUR good ones.
dialog: (the spirit of generosity,
text: he hands her a CHECK)
dialog: Look at those zeroes! We've hit the
dialog: big time! We are now hanging in the
dialog: collection of Italian industrialist
dialog: Dino Olivetti! With his patronage
dialog: comes credibility! And with
dialog: credibility comes RESPECT!
text: Margaret stares at the check in her hands. At all the zeroes.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What about... honesty?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Aw c'mon! The paintings say "Keane"!
dialog: I'm Keane, you're Keane. From now on,
dialog: we are one and the same.
text: Walter pulls her tight. She doesn't resist.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS:
dialog: 34.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - DAY
text: Upbeat MUSIC. Walter frantically tosses all the BROCHURES of
text: him and Margaret into a FIREPLACE. They burn to ash.
scene_heading: INSERT - NEWSPAPER
text: We ZOOM into Dick Nolan's SOCIETY COLUMN. Under a caricature
text: of Dick is a highlighted ITEM. We hear TYPING:
scene_heading: DICK'S HUSHED VOICE
dialog: "What exactly is local painter Walter
dialog: Keane up to? My spies tell me a big
dialog: announcement is forthcoming...!"
scene_heading: EXT. CITY HALL - DAY
text: Walter proudly hands a painting to the confused-looking MAYOR.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: On behalf of the children of the
dialog: world, we present this painting to
dialog: Mayor Christopher!
scene_heading: EXT. PUBLIC BUILDING - DAY
text: Walter thrusts a painted Ballerina at a SOVIET DIPLOMAT.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: In the interest of peace through
dialog: culture, we donate this painting to
dialog: the people of Russia!
scene_heading: INT. PHONEBOOTH - NIGHT
text: Dick whispers into a phone.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: The Purple Onion. 9:30. Joan
text: Crawford has a dinner reservation.
scene_heading: INT. PURPLE ONION - NIGHT
text: JOAN CRAWFORD is eating with friends. Suddenly Walter lunges
text: into view, startling her. He lugs a painting.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Miss Crawford! In recognition of your
dialog: cinematic craft, we bestow this
dialog: painting, "The Lion and the Child"!
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - DAY
text: Margaret paints. Walter beams.
dialog: 35.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Joan said "Marvelous"! MARVELOUS!
dialog: That's worth more than 1000 critics!
dialog: (he CLAPS his hands)
dialog: Hey, maybe she'll come to our opening.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: But... isn't it strange? Artists get
dialog: shown. They don't build their own
dialog: galleries.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Says who?! Like John Q. Public cares?
dialog: He's FED UP with abstract neoformalism!
text: She responds -- but he sexily puts his finger to her mouth.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: He digs real art. Your art! It's
dialog: beautiful. You're beautiful...
text: Walter starts rubbing against her, dancing sensually. She
text: laughs, embarrassed, her wet paint brushes smearing his chest.
text: She relents and relaxes. They dance around...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREETS - EARLY MORNING
text: In the shadows, POSTERS of "The Waif" get glued up. Under her
text: woeful face, it says "KEANE GALLERY 494 Broadway." We WIDEN,
text: as Walter, Margaret and Jane hastily slap up the posters.
text: They carry glue buckets and a ladder.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ruben's gonna choke when he sees this!
text: Little Jane tiredly glues another poster. She yawns.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: I remember when Momma painted that.
dialog: Huh?
text: Suddenly, Margaret freezes. She hadn't anticipated this.
text: Margaret looks to Walter. He stares back, waiting.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Are you -- sure? That was a long time
dialog: ago.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Sure I'm sure! It was in our old
dialog: apartment, and you had me sit on a
dialog: stool in the kitchen --
dialog: 36.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (CUTTING IN)
dialog: No, dear, I'm afraid you're confused.
dialog: I painted that one --
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: No, Mother did! Look! I'm wearing my
text: blue dress.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: L-lots of girls have that dress...
text: Margaret trails off, sickened. Not knowing how to lie.
text: Walter takes charge. He kneels, then smiles gently at Jane.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You have a good eye, sweetie. I
dialog: painted it, but I was trying to mimic
dialog: your mother's style. You know, the
dialog: style she USED to paint in.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - JANE
text: A loooooong pause. She examines the print. Then... she nods.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Well you did a really good job.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SAN FRANCISCO NORTH BEACH - DAY
text: CU on the Waif. We widen, revealing the ENTIRE WORLD has been
text: hijacked, blanketed by THE POSTERS. People gape -- astonished
text: and captivated.
text: Disconnected from it all, strolling alone, is Margaret. She
text: is burdened by her own thoughts. Regretful...
text: Across the street, she sees a GOTHIC CHURCH. She stares up,
text: awed by the beauty. It's Catholic imagery in all its glory:
dialog: Saints... Jesus... Mary...
text: Suddenly -- the bells RING. Hm. Margaret takes a step...
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH CONFESSION BOOTH - DAY
text: Margaret tentatively enters and kneels. Beat -- then the
text: grille OPENS. She reacts, discomposed.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Hello. I've -- never really done this
dialog: before. I'm not sure how you...
speaker_heading: (WORRIED)
dialog: I was raised Methodist. If it's a
dialog: problem, I can go --
dialog: 37.
dialog: 
text: She starts to stand. The Priest blurts out.
speaker_heading: PRIEST'S VOICE
dialog: No, no! Please. We don't chase
dialog: people away.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: What is troubling you?
text: Margaret takes a breath.
speaker_heading: THEN --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I lied to my child.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: PRIEST'S VOICE
dialog: Why would you do that?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: My husband... he pressured me into
dialog: doing it.
speaker_heading: (PAUSE)
dialog: I've never lied to her before. I'm
dialog: not that kind of person.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: PRIEST'S VOICE
dialog: Is your husband that kind of person?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Ummm, no. I don't think of him that
dialog: way. I mean, he likes to tell
dialog: stories... maybe he exaggerates a
dialog: little... but he's a good man.
speaker_heading: (SHE THINKS)
dialog: He takes care of us. He wants to make
dialog: enough money to buy our family a
dialog: house...
speaker_heading: PRIEST'S VOICE
dialog: But what of the child? Will this lie
dialog: bring harm to her?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: "Harm"?? Oh! Not at all.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: I'm just looking for answers...
dialog: The Priest considers this.
speaker_heading: PRIEST'S VOICE
dialog: Well, the modern world is a
dialog: complicated place.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: PRIEST'S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Occasionally, children need to be
dialog: sheltered from certain truths.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: N-no. That's not what --
speaker_heading: PRIEST'S VOICE
dialog: It sounds like your husband is trying
dialog: to make the best of an imperfect
dialog: situation.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: You were raised Christian, so you know
dialog: what we are taught: The man is head of
dialog: the household.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Perhaps you should trust his judgment.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. KEANE GALLERY - NIGHT
text: Opening night! The gallery is packed with the IN CROWD: Rich
text: and drinking. The space is cool -- the walls bright white,
text: the art hanging under spotlights. JAZZ plays on the stereo.
text: At one painting, a HIPSTER COUPLE stares at the image of a
text: sorrowful girl holding an armful of poodle puppies.
speaker_heading: HIPSTER LADY
dialog: I think it's creepy, maudlin and
dialog: amateurish.
speaker_heading: HIPSTER MAN
dialog: Exactly. I love it.
text: We move in tight on the painting. Underneath is a tag:
text: "BEDTIME, by WALTER KEANE. Oil on canvas."
text: We drift along, to another painting: "CALICO CAT, by WALTER
text: KEANE." Then, another: "IN THE GARDEN, by WALTER KEANE."
text: Every painting is now by Walter Keane.
text: We move along... finding the Tipsy Man chatting up Dick.
speaker_heading: TIPSY MAN
dialog: We got in early. We own three.
speaker_heading: (HE TURNS)
dialog: Thanks, doll.
text: He tosses his empty to a PASSING LADY. We reveal the waitress
text: is... Margaret. She carries a tray of pigs-in-a-blanket.
text: Margaret looks shell-shocked -- faking a happy party face.
text: A burst of LAUGHTER. Margaret turns.
dialog: 39.
dialog: 
text: Walter and a group ROAR at a joke. A SEXY GIRL hands Walter
text: one of the promo posters. He beams and lays it across her
text: back... hugging her waist to "steady" himself as he signs.
scene_heading: BACK ON MARGARET
text: She frowns. Dee-Ann slides into view, slurping champagne.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Hey, baby! Killer party! It's a hap-
dialog: pen-ing...! So, where's your stuff?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (NERVOUS)
dialog: Oh. Um, we decided that this would be
dialog: Walter's show --
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
speaker_heading: (SUSPICIOUS)
dialog: Oh "we" did?? And why would "we" do
dialog: that??
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Well... he's more established.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Please! Is that you talking, or did
dialog: you just turn into a little felt
dialog: puppet with someone's hand up your
dialog: ass?
text: Margaret is befuddled.
text: Dee-Ann scopes out the artwork.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: It's strange... Walter doesn't strike
dialog: me as the cute hungry kitten type...
text: Margaret grimaces.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Thanks for coming.
text: Margaret grabs a drink and hurries away.
text: Dee-Ann stands there, irked.
text: Margaret cuts over to Walter. We MOVE IN TIGHT ON THE COUPLE.
text: He grins and grabs her.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ah, my sweet! Are you enjoying the
dialog: scene?
dialog: (he gives her a kiss)
speaker_heading: EVERYONE!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: WALTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Give a hand to my beautiful wife.
dialog: Without her, none of tonight would be
dialog: possible!
text: The crowd APPLAUDS politely, condescendingly.
text: Margaret smiles strangely. The Tipsy Man leans in.
speaker_heading: TIPSY MAN
dialog: Your husband's quite a talent.
speaker_heading: (PLEASANT)
dialog: Do you paint, too?
text: Margaret freezes up, terribly awkward.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I don't... know.
speaker_heading: AT WALTER
text: A NOSY GUY corners him in front of a painted child.
speaker_heading: NOSY GUY
dialog: I'm curious about your technique. How
dialog: long did that piece take to execute?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: That? Oh, wow. Probably... months.
dialog: First the thinking, the sketching, and
dialog: then time with just me and the oils.
speaker_heading: NOSY GUY
dialog: "Oils"? But isn't that acrylic...?
text: Huh? Walter glances at the painting, startled.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Oh --! You mean that painting! Uhh,
dialog: sorry! It's like a jumble of ideas,
dialog: rattling around in my brain!
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: NOSY GUY
dialog: So where do you get your ideas?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: NOSY GUY
dialog: I mean --
dialog: (confused at this confusion)
dialog: Why are they... images of children?
text: Yikes. Walter starts to sweat. He didn't think this through.
dialog: 41.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Well, er, I've just always loved kids.
dialog: Though mostly I was influenced by my
dialog: darling daughter...
text: An odd beat.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I remember when she was a baby...
text: Walter gets a far-off look.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yeah. Cute little thing. I'd stare
dialog: into those big orbs. Sometimes I'd
dialog: get out my Brownie and snap a photo...
dialog: but... that's not subjective. You
dialog: know? It doesn't capture your
dialog: feelings. So that's when I started
dialog: painting her...
text: We hold on Walter, unsure where reality begins and ends...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BERKELEY APARTMENT - DAY
text: CU on a fuzzy TV SCREEN: A PRIGGISH MAN is griping. The
text: screen is captioned "JOHN CANADAY, NY TIMES ART CRITIC"
speaker_heading: CANADAY (ON TV)
text: Keane's work is completely without
dialog: distinction. He is not a member of
dialog: the Society of Western Artists. He
dialog: has won no awards. He's only
dialog: noteworthy for his appearances in a
dialog: certain newspaper's gossip column!
speaker_heading: (EXASPERATED)
dialog: Mr. Keane is why society NEEDS critics!
dialog: To protect them from such atrocities!
text: Walter gapes at the TV, outraged. He suddenly grabs a PHONE.
scene_heading: IN THE LIVING ROOM
text: Jane is BANGING on a closed door.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Mom! I wanna come in.
speaker_heading: MARGARET (O.S.)
dialog: Uhh, you can't. Mommy's busy.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: (she BANGS again)
dialog: Let me in! What are you doing in
dialog: there? Why's the door always locked?
dialog: 42.
dialog: 
text: Walter enters -- and reacts. He glides over to the girl.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Janie, sweetie, you need to respect
dialog: your mother's privacy. Sometimes
dialog: grownups need alone time.
speaker_heading: (HE WINKS)
dialog: Is that the ice cream truck? Why don't
dialog: you go get yourself a fudgesicle?
text: Walter tosses her a dime. She peers warily, then leaves.
text: He waits a beat -- then pulls out a KEY. Walter discreetly
text: unlocks the painting room.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT PAINTING ROOM - SAME TIME
text: It's a factory. Big Eyes are everywhere. Margaret frenziedly
text: works, surrounded by half-done canvases, solvents, easels.
text: She's in a bathrobe -- a cigarette hanging from her lips.
text: Startled, she looks up to see Walter.
text: He gazes at all the art. At the bulbous faces, eyes watery
text: and submissive, trapped in muddy yellows and dire browns. And
text: then... Walter grins broadly.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Whew! Out of this world...!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (BOTHERED)
dialog: I dunno. I'm not really comfortable
dialog: with this. Jane and I used to be so
dialog: close... but -- now...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ah, Jane's grand! She's eating ice
dialog: cream! She has new shoes. She has a
dialog: college fund.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Maybe I'm lightheaded from the
dialog: turpentine. I've been in here all day.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Well I don't want you feeling like a
dialog: prisoner. Take a break!
text: Walter glances at one PAINTING -- then does a take.
scene_heading: ANGLE - PAINTING
text: It's a child in a rusty alley, staring, aching for compassion.
text: And, starting to cry. A single tear streams down her cheek.
dialog: 43.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Is that a tear...? You've gone deep!
text: Margaret bites her fingers, worried.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Do you -- like it?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I love it! ...How'd you get the eyes
dialog: so lifelike? Is it the highlights?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (PROUD)
dialog: No. The secret is the shadow. I
text: shadowed the eyelid.
text: Margaret smiles shyly. Walter smiles back, full of warmth.
text: He takes her face in his hands.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I owe you an apology. I was initially
dialog: dismissive of your kids, those emotion-
text: wrenching blobs of humanity... but
dialog: they have a real strength.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (SHE LAUGHS)
dialog: Is that your best version of
dialog: sincerity?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm trying! Ah, you know me. See --
dialog: this is why I need your help! I want
dialog: to go on tv, to defend our art.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You're going to be on television?!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yes! But... what will I say??
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Meaning -- what compels me... to
dialog: paint... these paintings??
text: A bizarre pause. The two of them look around the room. At
text: all the Big Eyes peering down at them.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Maybe you have an unhealthy obsession
dialog: with little girls.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Cute.
dialog: 44.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (SHE SNICKERS)
dialog: I guess you've painted yourself into a
dialog: corner.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Funny! Keep 'em coming! You're a
dialog: regular Steve Allen. You want heat
dialog: this winter? Help me out!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter... art is personal.
text: Walter picks up a picture of TWO LITTLE GIRLS IN TUTUS. He
text: stares, perplexed.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What would make a grown man paint a
dialog: picture like this?!
text: No answer. He thinks of stories, wheels spinning.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I grew up, surrounded by six sisters.
speaker_heading: (NO GOOD)
dialog: I grew up in an orphanage?
speaker_heading: (STRUGGLING)
dialog: I grew up... in a world where adults
text: had vanished, and children and kittens
text: ran wild over the desolate landscape!
text: Margaret smiles.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What about your Paris street scenes?
dialog: Why do you paint those?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Well, because... I lived it! I
dialog: experienced it!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (calling his bluff)
dialog: And was it really all sun-dappled
dialog: streets and flower vendors?
text: Huh? Walter stares off at the Waifs. They peer out from
text: broken windows... chain-link fences...
dialog: And then -- he gets it.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Well -- NO! Of course not. It was
dialog: after the War. There was destruction
dialog: everywhere...
speaker_heading: (PAUSE)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: WALTER (CONT'D)
dialog: I traveled the Continent. The ravages
dialog: were horrifying...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSERT - FULL FRAME TV SCREEN
text: Walter is on TV, on a LOCAL PUBLIC AFFAIRS SHOW. He's coated
text: with makeup, sitting rigidly, fingers gripping his chair.
speaker_heading: WALTER (ON TV)
dialog: My psyche was scarred in my art
dialog: student days. Nothing in my life has
dialog: ever made such an impact as the sight
dialog: of the children: War-wracked
dialog: innocents, without homes, without
text: parents, fighting over garbage...
text: He sits in a half-circle of PROPER WOMEN, who are spellbound.
speaker_heading: WALTER (ON TV)
dialog: Goaded by a frantic despair, I
dialog: sketched these dirty, ragged little
dialog: victims... with their bruised minds
text: and bodies, their matted hair and
dialog: runny noses. There my life as a
text: painter began in earnest.
text: Walter sadly looks up to the HOST.
text: The man is shellshocked. Mute. Walter waits, then sighs.
speaker_heading: WALTER (ON TV)
dialog: The insane, inhuman cruelty inflicted
dialog: upon these children cut deeply into my
dialog: being. From that moment on, I painted
text: the lost children with the eyes.
dialog: Those eyes that forever retained their
dialog: haunting quality.
text: The ladies are stricken. A few dab their eyes.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SAN FRANCISCO - DAY
text: Keane posters get RIPPED off a wall.
text: RIPPED off a mailbox. PULLED off a construction site!
scene_heading: EXT. KEANE GALLERY - NEXT DAY
text: Walter strides along, a bounce to his step. He reaches the
text: gallery -- then stops, dumbfounded. It's PACKED with PEOPLE!
text: Not rich, but regular folks, gawking at the art.
dialog: 46.
dialog: 
text: Wow. A sweet moment... then some TOURISTS see Walter and
text: happily accost him: "Walter Keane!" "Mr. Keane!" They thrust
text: papers and POSTERS at him to autograph.
text: Walter grins and scribbles his signature. Glancing over their
text: shoulders, he sees Ruben down the block, standing outside his
text: own gallery. Gaping in disbelief.
text: Walter chuckles... then flips him off. Ruben's face falls.
scene_heading: INT. KEANE GALLERY - SAME TIME
text: Walter pushes through, shaking hands, greeting the CUSTOMERS:
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Good afternoon! Delighted!
text: (he reaches the SEXY BLONDE
text: CLERK and pinches her ass)
dialog: How many sales today?
speaker_heading: BLONDE CLERK
dialog: "Sales?" None with this crowd.
text: Walter's smile drops, surprised.
speaker_heading: BLONDE CLERK
dialog: These people are looky-loos! They
dialog: can't afford the paintings. But we
dialog: gave away a heap of posters!
text: Huh? Walter peers, baffled. Suddenly -- a loud FRWWIPPPP!
text: Walter whirls, startled. Outside, two GIRLS tear a big poster
text: off the front window.
text: Walter's eyes widen. Slowly, he turns back. At the counter,
text: FOLKS and KIDS are grabbing free posters from a box.
text: Walter stares. Processing this. And then... being struck by
dialog: an idea of absolute genius...
scene_heading: INT. STORAGE ROOM - SECONDS LATER
text: Walter is on the telephone, peering through the doorway.
text: Hiding from the customers. Spying. WHISPERING.
speaker_heading: WALTER (ON THE PHONE)
dialog: It's the craziest thing. I started
dialog: charging for the posters! First a
dialog: nickel... then a dime.
dialog: (struggling to whisper)
dialog: YES, Maggie! It's cuckoo! So it got
dialog: me thinkin': Would you rather sell a
dialog: $500 painting, or a million cheaply-
dialog: reproduced posters?!
dialog: (he LAUGHS, exultant)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: WALTER (ON THE PHONE) (CONT'D)
dialog: See, folks don't care if it's a copy.
dialog: They just want art that touches them!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: ANIMATION
speaker_heading: WALTER'S VOICE
dialog: And then... we could sell it
dialog: anywhere!! EVERYWHERE!
text: 60's-style MADISON AVENUE GRAPHICS: A still of a HARDWARE
text: STORE. Mops, light bulbs, then -- BING! -- framed KEANES.
text: A PHARMACY. Aspirin, candy bars -- BING! -- framed KEANES.
text: A GAS STATION. Tires, motor oil, and -- BING! -- KEANES.
scene_heading: INT. SUPERMARKET - DAY
text: An aisle of Sundries: Plastic toys, beach balls... Waifs. A
text: sign says "WE HAVE KEANE!"
text: Around the corner, Margaret shuffles along, listlessly buying
text: banalities: Cereal. Soap. She turns the cart... and runs
text: into her wall of teary-eyed kids.
text: Margaret peers, muddled.
text: Then she turns away -- to a RACK OF PAPERBACKS. They offer
text: fast hope, inspiration. Margaret seems disconnected. She
text: runs her hand down the options... a book of Numerology... a
dialog: book on Judaism... an Edgar Cayce prophecies manual...
text: AT THE REGISTER - Margaret gazes up. The CASHIER is a sad
text: Beatnik Girl. In a haze, Margaret notices the whole market is
text: full of LONELY WOMEN:
text: One LADY is her doppelganger -- same age, blonde, gripping a
text: cart. Next aisle over, a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN stares into space.
text: Nearby, a YOUNG MOM wrangles her children.
text: We shift to Margaret. Face gaunt. Eyes empty. Troubled...
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT PAINTING ROOM - DAY
text: Curtains drawn, Margaret frantically SKETCHES. She's cabin
text: feverish. In her robe. Hair dirty. And -- up to something.
text: These sketches aren't squat children with round eyes. They're
text: different: Figures with long lines.
text: Margaret frowns and rips the paper. She tries again! Another
dialog: angular figure -- straight fingers... no!
text: Again! A woman... reclining. Then an indication of a face:
text: A slash... and then -- two small almond shapes for eyes.
dialog: 48.
dialog: 
text: Hmm. Margaret's face brightens. She likes it.
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Margaret rabidly paints. Spurting globs of color. The woman
text: is blonde, almond eyes cool, lips curled with mystery...
text: Margaret glances in a mirror. It's a self-portrait. It's
text: Margaret, aloof. Alone at a table.
text: Suddenly the door opens. Margaret GASPS, startled, and spins
text: the canvas away. Walter barges in, dressed like a million.
text: He HALTS -- making a sour face.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Whew! Something smells in here. You
dialog: should open a window.
text: Margaret blinks, a bit dazed.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What time is it?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I dunno. 6:30, 7? ...Didn't Janie
dialog: get dinner?
text: Margaret shrugs. Walter leans in.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: When's the last time you washed your
dialog: hair?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I've been... busy.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: (he notices the turned
dialog: canvas; he's intrigued)
dialog: What do you got back there? Lemme
dialog: see.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No --! It's just... something I'm
dialog: working on. It's not for the world.
text: Walter gives her a funny look.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: "The world"? Baby, it's me!
dialog: (stepping forward, a bit
speaker_heading: MALEVOLENT)
dialog: I'm your number one fan.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No, please! Walter, it's -- personal.
dialog: 49.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (GETTING CLOSER)
dialog: But we're husband and wife. We
dialog: shouldn't have secrets...
text: Margaret gulps, fretting. Finally, without options -- she
text: flips over the canvas of the lonely blonde.
text: And -- Walter is taken aback. His eyebrows raise, shocked.
text: Margaret bites her lip. Will he go ballistic?
speaker_heading: ANGLE - WALTER
text: He leans right up to the painting.
text: His expression is inscrutable. Studying the technique. We
dialog: have no idea what his emotion is.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: It's a completely different style.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Yes it is.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: It looks like you.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
text: It's a self-portrait.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: How am I gonna explain that?
text: She shifts about.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I thought... maybe... I could sign it
dialog: myself.
text: Hmm. Walter's eyes narrow.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: That seems a bit confusing. "Keane"
dialog: means me.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Yes, I know... but... when people ask
dialog: me if I paint, I don't know what to
dialog: answer! I just want the pride of
dialog: being able to say -- that's mine.
text: Walter's wheels are ratcheting.
dialog: 50.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Who'd you tell about the Big Eyes?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Nobody!
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (PARANOID)
dialog: Was Dee-Ann here?! Did Dee-Ann see
dialog: this painting?!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No! NOBODY saw it!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You tell anybody, the empire
dialog: COLLAPSES! Do you wanna give back the
dialog: money? We've committed FRAUD!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I KNOW! My God! I live with this
dialog: every minute of my life!
speaker_heading: (IMPASSIONED)
dialog: Janie used to have a mother who
dialog: painted. Now what's she think?! I
dialog: lock myself in this room ten hours a
dialog: day... and then you walk out with
dialog: finished paintings!
text: He scowls, offended.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Janie thinks I'm in here, painting.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: C'mon! You haven't picked up a brush
dialog: in months!
dialog: (starting to sob)
dialog: We used to paint together! Easels
text: next to each other, side-by-side --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: That was the honeymoon period!
text: Margaret breaks into tears. Walter tenses.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Jesus, you're so fragile.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I've kept my end of the bargain! I've
dialog: never told!
dialog: (she SOBS harder)
dialog: Please! Just let me have this!
text: Walter recoils, unable to take this. He relents.
dialog: 51.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT LIVING ROOM - ANOTHER DAY
text: Another PHOTO OP, but big: A CAMERA CREW rushes about. Lights
text: get set-up. Walter, Margaret, and Jane work at easels.
text: Walter dabs at a Big Eye. Margaret works on a sad, long-neck
text: blonde. Jane paints a goofy flower, like any child.
text: Dick Nolan takes notes.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: So you're now called "The Painting
dialog: Keanes"?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yep! Walter and his girls! With
dialog: galleries in three cities!
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I had no idea Margaret painted.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yeah, we don't talk about it. Sadly,
dialog: people don't buy lady art.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (INTERJECTING)
dialog: What about Georgia O'Keefe?
text: Dick shakes his EMPTY GLASS, distracted. Walter points.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: The bar's over there.
text: Dick goes to get a refill. Walter shoots Margaret a look.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yeah, Margaret's a superb artist, in
dialog: her own way. I even steal a few tips
dialog: from her, now and then!
speaker_heading: (HE CHUCKLES)
dialog: Behind every great man is a great
dialog: woman.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: True true. So Margaret, where do you
dialog: get your ideas?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (a bit tentative)
dialog: Oh... from the world around me. And I
dialog: love Modigliani's use of line.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: ModiWHAT? The Italian joint?
dialog: 52.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Oh, for Christ's sake, Margaret! Dick
dialog: writes a gossip column --
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Let's stick to the family angle. Get
text: a gander at little Janie over there!
text: Walter steers Dick to Jane, cute at her little child's easel.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What a talent! Look at these Keanes!
dialog: If you cut open our veins, we bleed
dialog: oil! Er -- turpentine.
speaker_heading: (AWKWARD)
dialog: Uh, Dick, you know what I'm goin' for.
dialog: Make it sound good.
text: DING-DONG! It's the doorbell. Everyone turns.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Who's that?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ah! A little treat! The fourth
dialog: member of the Painting Keanes!
text: Margaret and Jane turn, confused. Walter whips open
speaker_heading: THE FRONT DOOR
text: Revealing LILY, 10, a quiet girl in bobbed hair. She holds a
dialog: little overnight bag.
text: A Buick HONKS, and Walter waves as it drives away. Walter
text: stares at the girl, then puts on big hammy airs.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Lily, honey, how are you?!
text: He gives her a giant hug. She responds stiffly -- a girl who
dialog: doesn't see her father too often.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: I'm fine, Dad. I lost a tooth.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Really? Did you get in a fight?
speaker_heading: LILY
speaker_heading: (SHE LAUGHS)
dialog: No. It fell out!
scene_heading: ANGLE - MARGARET AND JANE
text: They gape in bewilderment. Who the hell is this girl??!
dialog: 53.
dialog: 
text: BACK ON WALTER AND LILY
text: Walter admires Lily's mouth.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Well is the tooth fairy somethin' I
dialog: gotta deal with, or did your mother
dialog: already handle it?
speaker_heading: LILY
speaker_heading: (DRY)
dialog: She handled it.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Good! Good good! Well, just go throw
dialog: your stuff in the kids' room, then you
dialog: can come join the fun!
text: Lily toddles out.
speaker_heading: ON THE GROUP
text: Margaret and Jane are speechless.
text: Walter acts like nothing bizarre has happened.
text: Dick eyeballs all this with major curiosity.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Walter... you never told me you had
dialog: another daughter.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Didn't I? Sure. Lil's from my first
dialog: marriage.
text: Margaret struggles to hold her rage. Disoriented...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter?
speaker_heading: (URGENT)
dialog: Walter! We need to speak.
text: Margaret gestures: Get in the kitchen! He nods and follows.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: Margaret shuts the door, then spins on him.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What is going on here??!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: That's Lily. I'm sure I mentioned her --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No you didn't.
dialog: 54.
dialog: 
text: Margaret peers at him. How much can she trust?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Did she just move in??
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: No! Her mom's just going to Vegas for
dialog: the weekend.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: I'm supposed to have her once a month,
dialog: but I don't make her mom enforce it.
scene_heading: TIGHT - MARGARET
text: Her head is spinning.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: How can you keep something so big a
dialog: secret???
scene_heading: TIGHT - WALTER
text: He starts to answer... then gives her a look: You are kidding?
text: Walter squirms defensively.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: She's a sweet girl.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (HISSING)
dialog: I'm sure she is.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I put up with your daughter. I never
dialog: said a peep.
text: Margaret's jaw drops.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I'm gonna pretend you didn't say that.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm sorry. Sorry! Please... let's
dialog: just try to get through this.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. JANE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Jane's room, cute with stuffed animals and troll dolls.
text: Lily is in the corner, awkwardly unpacking her bag. Trying
text: not to impose on Jane's space. The girls peer at each other.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Dad told me you had a bunk bed.
dialog: 55.
dialog: 
text: Jane shakes her head. She feels bad.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Take the bed. I can sleep on the
speaker_heading: FLOOR --
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: No, that's not fair! The floor's fine
dialog: for me.
text: Jane smiles nervously. She stares at this new girl.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Do you live far away?
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: I guess... about a twenty minute drive.
speaker_heading: JANE
speaker_heading: (STARTLED)
dialog: "Twenty minutes"?! That's close!
text: Jane blinks, confused.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: But you never see Walter?
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: No, I see him all the time! He comes
dialog: up and visits every week.
text: Jane is taken aback. Lily sees this.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Doesn't he talk about me?
speaker_heading: JANE
speaker_heading: (LYING)
dialog: Huh? Uh... sure. I guess a little.
text: Jane thinks, fretting.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Does he talk about me?
speaker_heading: LILY
speaker_heading: (LYING)
dialog: Uh... yeah. Sometimes.
speaker_heading: JANE
speaker_heading: (PLEASED)
dialog: So what's your mom like?
speaker_heading: LILY
text: She's pretty. She drives a Buick.
dialog: She cries a lot.
dialog: 56.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Yeah, mine's the same.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
text: Except she drives a Packard.
text: Lily nods. Jane lowers her voice naughtily.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: I have some peanut butter hidden in my
dialog: sock drawer. Do you wanna eat it?
text: Lily smiles: Sure. Jane opens a drawer and removes a jar of
text: Skippy. The two girls sit on the floor, happily eating the
text: peanut butter with their fingers.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. KEANE GALLERY - NIGHT
text: Klieg lights streak the sky! A crazed CROWD is packed INSIDE.
text: A big sign announces: "NOW APPEARING: AMERICA'S FIRST FAMILY
dialog: OF ART - 'We paint truth and emotion.'"
scene_heading: INT. KEANE GALLERY - NIGHT
dialog: The place is filled with Big Eyes. Waifs waifs waifs! Cash
text: registers RING. Money changes hands. "Sold" stickers go up.
text: Walter works the room.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yeah, Walter Keane and Gauguin have a
text: lot in common. They both walked away
dialog: from successful careers to travel the
dialog: globe, live on a boat...
text: We move... finding Margaret alone in a small ANNEX. It
text: displays a few of her sad blondes, alongside Jane and Lily's
text: paintings of flowers and Mr. Potato-Head. Margaret sits,
text: seeming like an adult at the children's table.
text: An urbane RICH MAN glides by... and is taken with one of
text: Margaret's nubile blondes. He gazes at the lounging figure.
text: Margaret sits up. Alert, pleased with his interest.
text: She tingles. Then, happily excited, unable to hold it in:
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I painted it!
speaker_heading: RICH MAN
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: (IMPRESSED)
dialog: It's very evocative. ...Sensual...
text: He smiles flirtatiously. She smiles shyly and shrugs.
dialog: 57.
dialog: 
text: He steps forward -- then peers closer at the painting. The
text: SIGNATURE is a feminine scroll: "MDH Keane"
speaker_heading: RICH MAN
dialog: "MDH"? You're so... mysterioso.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Yes, we don't use my name, since
dialog: people don't take women's art
dialog: seriously.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: "MDH" are my initials. And more! I'm
dialog: interested in numerology... and as you
dialog: know, seven is a very good number.
speaker_heading: RICH MAN
speaker_heading: (PUZZLED)
dialog: Er... seven?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Luckily, my maiden name is Margaret
dialog: Doris Hawkins! "M" is the 13th letter
dialog: of the alphabet, "D" is 4, "H" 8! If
dialog: you add up 1 and 3 in 13, that gives
dialog: you 4, making 4 plus 4 plus 8 equals
dialog: 16, then 1 plus 6 equals seven!
text: The man's head is spinning. He's lost all interest.
text: Across the room, Walter sees this debacle. He marches over.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Psst! Maggie! Can I have a second?
dialog: (he PULLS HER ASIDE)
dialog: Good grief! What the hell are you
dialog: babbling about?! Long division??
dialog: Could you please help the world and
dialog: shut your mouth? You want just one
dialog: number in his head: The sales price!
text: Her face drops, hurt. Acquiescing.
speaker_heading: WATCHING THIS
text: Two SNOBBY ARTISTS smirk and GROAN at this scene.
speaker_heading: SNOBBY ARTIST #1
dialog: Two nuts that fell from the same tree!
dialog: It's insufferable. Why are we
dialog: starving, while they print money?
speaker_heading: SNOBBY ARTIST #2
dialog: Because that nut's a genius! He sells
dialog: paintings! Then he sells pictures of
dialog: the paintings! Then he sells postcards
dialog: of pictures of the paintings.
dialog: 58.
dialog: 
text: They stare bitterly. Then, a terrible, shameful idea forms:
speaker_heading: SNOBBY ARTIST #1
dialog: I'll bet I could bang one out in ten
dialog: minutes.
speaker_heading: SNOBBY ARTIST #2
dialog: It wouldn't have the dopey sincerity.
speaker_heading: SNOBBY ARTIST #1
dialog: The customers won't notice...
text: They peer sheepishly at each other...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STORE WINDOW - DAY
text: Ruben is walking past -- then stops, pained. A window display
text: of Keane Big Eyes shares space with paintings of CUTESY
text: KITTENS lapping up milk.
text: We WIDEN, revealing a whole wall of rip-offs! All with odd
text: anonymous signatures: "Gig." "Eve." "Igor." A cavalcade of
scene_heading: WIDE-EYED ANIMALS AND KIDS... DANCING WITH GUITARS... DRESSED
text: AS HOBOS... PLAYING IN PAJAMAS. But these children aren't
dialog: sad. They're just... blank.
text: Ruben gasps at the dead-eyed pictures.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Christ. It's a movement.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSERT - TELEVISION - FULL FRAME
text: "The Tonight Show" opening CREDITS:
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
dialog: It's "The Tonight Show!" With guests
dialog: Jerry Lewis, the Everly Brothers,
dialog: artists Walter and Margaret Keane --
text: The CHANNEL CHANGES: A children's toy commercial (STOCK). A
text: tear-streaked, crying plastic DOLL, a flagrant Waif rip-off:
speaker_heading: FEMALE ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
dialog: She's "Little Miss No Name," the doll
dialog: with the tear. From Hasbro.
text: The CHANNEL CHANGES: Spanish TELEVISION. A Keane painting
text: gets hung in Madrid's National Museum of Contemporary Art.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 59.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM - DAY
text: The Margaret sweatshop is going full-blast. Canvases are
dialog: everywhere: Melancholy MDH ladies. Woeful Keane kids. Even a
text: portrait of Natalie Wood, copied from a photo. Margaret dips
text: a tiny brush, quickly detailing the tear on a child's cheek...
text: when the doorbell CHIMES.
text: Hm? Margaret puts down her brush, wipes her hands, then
text: hurries out. She opens the door... REVEALING THAT WE'RE IN A
scene_heading: DIFFERENT HOUSE. A GIANT, PHENOMENAL 1960s EXTRAVAGANZA.
scene_heading: INT. WOODSIDE HOUSE - SAME TIME
text: Margaret runs across the marble floors, past the swooping,
text: Modern lines of a California ranch... all-white furniture... a
text: kidney-shaped pool glistening blue outside the glass... a cute
text: TOY POODLE barking at the door.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Rembrandt, shush!
text: In the foyer, Margaret opens the front door. And standing
text: there is Dee-Ann. Dazzled. She laughs with surprise.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: My God! I thought I misread the
dialog: address.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Yeah. That driveway is long.
dialog: (she giggles, embarrassed)
dialog: Honestly, I can't believe I live here.
text: Dee-Ann glides in -- then freezes, agape.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Whoa.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I know! Two acres, a pool, five
speaker_heading: BEDROOMS --
speaker_heading: (PAUSE)
dialog: Though I thought that was excessive,
dialog: since there's only three of us here.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Three? I thought there were four.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: (CONFUSED; BEAT)
dialog: Oh -- you mean Lily! No, she doesn't
dialog: really live with us. That was just in
dialog: the articles.
dialog: 60.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Crazy. A fake daughter...
text: Dee-Ann's eyes take it all in. Astonished.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: It's been so long since I've seen you.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I know. North Beach is 30 miles, but
dialog: it might as well be 300...
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: You're probably busy, hanging out with
dialog: your new rich buddies.
speaker_heading: (BARBED)
dialog: "Kim Novak."
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Oh, please! She's Walter's friend.
dialog: (a quiet shrug)
dialog: He brings people by... the Beach Boys
dialog: were here. But, it's pretty isolated.
text: Dee-Ann goes silent. Margaret seems dwarfed by the house.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Jane has nice friends. Sometimes I
dialog: pick them up at the junior high, and
dialog: we all get pizza.
speaker_heading: (AWKWARD)
dialog: But she's busy... Are you hungry?
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: I'm thirsty.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Good! I'll whip us up two gin fizzes.
text: Margaret forces a smile and scurries behind a giant curved wet
text: bar. She pulls out ingredients: Gin, lemon juice, soda...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: When we moved in, I thought a wet bar
dialog: was extravagant... but it's surprising
dialog: how much use you can get out of it.
text: Dee-Ann watches the drinkmaking.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: How's Walter?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: He couldn't be happier. He has
dialog: everything he ever dreamed of.
dialog: 61.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: And so do you! Fabulous.
text: Dee-Ann smiles archly. She glances away -- and notices
text: Margaret's STUDIO, the door half-open.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Oh, is that your studio?
text: Margaret turns -- and gasps.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No --! You can't go in --
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: I just want a peek. See what the
text: workspace of a wildly successful
dialog: artist looks like --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Dee-Ann, please! STOP --
text: Margaret rushes to block her -- but Dee-Ann pushes open the
text: door, revealing...
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM
text: A room full of MDHs and Keanes.
text: Dee-Ann stops, puzzled. She glances at Margaret -- who has
text: turned white as a ghost.
text: Immensely curious, Dee-Ann slowly enters. She peers around at
dialog: the two styles of paintings...
text: A strained silence. Finally, Margaret whispers.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: W-Walter paints in here too.
dialog: Hmm.
text: Dee-Ann walks about, examining the canvases. Then, her gaze
text: settles on the Big Eye that Margaret was working on.
text: Below the easel is the wet brush on the open jar of paint.
text: Margaret sucks in her breath. Dee-Ann sees this.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Is Walter home??
text: Margaret has no answer.
text: The two friends look at each other... Dee-Ann waiting...
text: wondering if Margaret is going to lie to her...
dialog: 62.
dialog: 
dialog: When..... SLAM!
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Both women startle. FOOTSTEPS. Then... Walter strides in!
text: Margaret's eyes pop.
text: Walter's pop even bigger. He glares at the ladies.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What the hell's going on here?!!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (TIMID)
dialog: Uh... Dee-Ann was just... she...
text: Margaret trails off. Walter thinks, then SNAPS.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You KNOW I don't like anyone seeing my
dialog: work before it's done!
text: Walter rushes to the Waif, then for show grabs up the wet
text: brush and quickly starts to "finish" the painting.
text: Suddenly -- an odd expression crosses his face. He eyeballs
text: the canvas, realizing he doesn't know what to do.
text: A furtive glance. Then, unbowed, he hastily dips the brush
text: and slaps a little black onto the shaded background.
text: Walter spins, victorious.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: There!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER
text: The three sit silently, tension thick, sipping gin fizzes.
text: Nobody speaks.
text: Walter finishes his drink and pours a fresh one.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FOYER - NIGHT
text: They are drunk and SCREAMING. Walter pushes Dee-Ann out the
dialog: door.
dialog: 63.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You and your whole non-representational
dialog: crowd are FRAUDS!!
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: SHUT UP! You're so full of shit,
dialog: Walter!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Get outta my house! My big house!
speaker_heading: (LIVID)
dialog: Go back to sellin' your coat hanger
dialog: sculptures on Fisherman's Wharf!
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: Fuck you!
text: Dee-Ann staggers outside, then hops in her car.
speaker_heading: OUTSIDE
text: Dee-Ann GUNS the engine and squeals away. The car peels down
text: the very long driveway.
text: Margaret and Walter watch the car disappear into the distance.
text: Without looking over, Walter speaks.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I don't want her ever invited here
dialog: again.
text: Margaret nods, terribly sad.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I won't.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT
text: Margaret and Walter lie in bed, awake. Arms crossed.
text: Unspeaking.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODSIDE HOUSE - ANOTHER DAY
text: Margaret and 13-YEAR-OLD JANE play on the lawn with the
text: poodle. Jane laughs as the dog chases in circles.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Go, Rembrandt! Get the ball!
text: She tumbles, and Rembrandt licks her ear. She giggles.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Okay, honey. I have to go work.
dialog: 64.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Can I come?
dialog: (an awkward silence)
dialog: No. I can never come. No! I
dialog: shouldn't even ask.
text: Jane glares glumly.
text: Margaret peers hopelessly at her daughter... then goes inside.
scene_heading: INT. WOODSIDE HOUSE
text: Margaret strolls to her studio. WE SEE the poodle scampering
text: behind her on its cute little legs. She enters the
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM
text: Margaret doesn't notice the tiny dog follow her in. She LOCKS
text: the door, then turns -- surprised.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Where did you appear from? Didn't you
dialog: hear? No visitors!
text: Rembrandt wags his tail, his little eyes bright. Margaret
dialog: peers.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Is this what it's come to? You're the
dialog: only living soul I can tell my secret?
dialog: (she lowers her voice)
dialog: Well -- I painted them all!
dialog: (she shudders with release)
dialog: It's TRUE! I did every single one --
text: She gestures, then catches sight of a Walter street scene.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Well, every one except that street
dialog: scene.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: But I did the rest. Every Big Eye!
dialog: And nobody will ever know. But YOU.
text: Rembrandt pants and BARKS.
text: Margaret chuckles, then goes to work. She pulls a CURTAIN
text: across the sliding glass door. At her easel, she squirts a
text: tube into a well and starts mixing colors.
text: Rembrandt jumps on the couch.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No you don't! It's nice to have
dialog: company, but that sofa is new.
dialog: (she pushes him off)
dialog: Let's find you some carpet to lay on.
dialog: 65.
dialog: 
text: Margaret goes over to a CLOSET. Rembrandt follows, curious.
speaker_heading: IN THE CLOSET
text: Margaret turns on the bare bulb inside. It's filled with old
dialog: easels... cans... junk...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I think there's a scrap back here...
text: She rummages, sliding the junk aside. In back is a TATTERED
scene_heading: WOODEN CRATE.
dialog: Hm?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Well what's this?
text: Margaret swings the bulb closer. The crate is covered with
text: SHIPPING INSTRUCTIONS and international markings.
text: Margaret's interest is piqued. She tugs at the lid, pulling
text: it off. Revealing inside a STACK OF STREET SCENE PAINTINGS.
text: Ten or fifteen of Walter's canvases.
dialog: Or so it seems.
scene_heading: TIGHT - MARGARET
text: She peers closer.
scene_heading: TIGHT - THE PAINTINGS
text: The top painting is a typical Parisian street scene: Cobble
text: stones, a man carrying baguettes, an old lady selling roses...
text: But down in the bottom corner is the signature: "S. CENIC"
scene_heading: TIGHT - MARGARET
text: She sucks in her breath, shocked. She examines the painting.
text: Then, she hurriedly grabs the next canvas. It's another
text: sunlit scene: A quaint Parisian cafe, a man playing accordian,
text: and in the bottom right corner... the signature: "S. CENIC"
text: WHAT?! Margaret grabs the next canvas. "S. CENIC"
text: The next canvas.
dialog: The next canvas!
dialog: They all are signed "S. CENIC"
text: Margaret starts hyperventilating.
dialog: 66.
dialog: 
text: She thinks, then suddenly bolts from the closet.
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM
text: Margaret races, rushing up to Walter's painted street scene,
text: hung on the wall. We PUSH IN TIGHT, as she shoves her face up
text: to the canvas, so close we can see the brushstrokes --
text: As we MOVE IN TO THE SIGNATURE. Simply, "W. KEANE"
text: Margaret's face is flushed. She gazes at the name... then
text: rushes back to her work area. She manically hunts: Brushes,
text: tubes, rags -- and an EXACTO KNIFE.
text: Ah! She runs back to Walter's painting. Heart pounding, she
text: grazes the knife up against the signature, then DIGS.
text: And -- the "W. KEANE" flecks off. Revealing... underneath...
dialog: the name "S. CENIC"
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - MARGARET
text: She trembles, overcome. Music SWELLS. Her eyes spin back --
scene_heading: SERIES OF QUICK FLASHBACKS:
text: Walter painting at the Palace of Fine Arts. His canvas is
dialog: blank.
text: Walter in the apartment, signing his name to a finished piece.
text: Walter spattering paint on his clothes.
text: Walter the day we met him. He shows off a rack of finished
text: paintings at the Sunday Art Show.
scene_heading: BACK ON MARGARET
text: She collapses.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WOODSIDE HOUSE - THAT EVENING
text: A grandfather clock says 10:15. Margaret sits gloomily,
text: staring at the clock. Clutching a drink.
speaker_heading: LATER
text: 2:30 a.m. Margaret still stares at the clock. She's stewing.
text: Suddenly, keys in the door. Walter swings in, tanked and full
text: of life. He skids across the marble, humming to himself --
text: when -- he's startled by his wife. He jerks.
dialog: 67.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: M-Maggie! What're you doin' up?
text: Margaret glares. Not speaking. He shrugs.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I had a helluva night. Worked three
dialog: or four clubs.
dialog: (he winks, loosey-goosey)
dialog: Stumbled onto some hot gossip: Madame
dialog: Chiang Kai-shek is coming to town!
dialog: Straight from Taipei! I think we
dialog: should present her with a painting --
dialog: get Dick to flack it...
speaker_heading: (HE THINKS)
dialog: Or the heck with Dick. I met a new
dialog: guy at UPI...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Maybe you should give her one of your
text: street scenes.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (HAZY)
dialog: You think? I dunno -- I thought you
text: could whip off a doodle of Chinatown.
dialog: With a cute little kid, sort of a big-
dialog: eyed slanty-eyed thing...
text: Margaret's anger is raging. She glares, steely.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No, Walter. She's a dignitary.
dialog: Doesn't she deserve a piece that comes
dialog: straight from you?
speaker_heading: (SHARP)
dialog: From your experience???
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Yeah? Maybe you're right. She
dialog: probably doesn't have a Parisian
text: street scene hanging in her palace.
text: Margaret nods, as if they've settled something. She turns to
text: walk away -- then suddenly SPINS.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Unless Madame Chiang Kai-shek already
dialog: has a Cenic.
speaker_heading: ON WALTER
text: He freezes up.
text: Suddenly sober, smacked to reality.
dialog: 68.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: "Cenic"...? Uh, what's that?
text: Margaret stares, eyes sharp.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Cenic is the name of the artist who
dialog: did all your early paintings.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Huhhh?
dialog: (spinning his lie)
dialog: Urgh... oh! CENIC!
dialog: (he laughs crazily)
dialog: Cenic was my nickname in Paris! All
dialog: my art school pals loved my scenic
dialog: views, so they called me "Scenic"!
dialog: But since those Frogs can't pronounce
dialog: a hard "e," I became "Cenic."
text: He looks up at her hopefully.
text: But she shakes her head.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: The more you lie, the smaller you seem.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: (unyielding, scrambling)
dialog: How DARE you accuse me of lying! I'm
dialog: proud of my early Cenics!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Then why do you paint over the name?
text: Walter gasps, floored.
text: Margaret bores in.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: A bit of advice: Don't use a water-
text: base over an oil. It flecks off.
text: Walter cowers.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You sound crazy! For God's sake.
dialog: You've... you've SEEN me paint!!!!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No, I haven't.
speaker_heading: (QUIET; STRONG)
dialog: I always thought I had... but it's
dialog: some kind of... mirage. From a
dialog: distance you look like a painter, but
dialog: up close... there's nothing there.
dialog: 69.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - WALTER
text: All life drains from his face. His eyes go glazed. He speaks
text: mechanically. Tiredly...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I studied art in Paris. I went to
dialog: school at the Beaux-Arts. The Grand
dialog: Chaumiere. I spent hours in the
text: Louvre, gazing at the greatness of the
dialog: Masters...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter?
text: He turns. She winces, pained.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Have you even been to Paris?
text: Walter blanches. He shakes, broken up.
text: He looks away, then staggers to a chair. He falls into it.
text: Trembling. Not able to look her in the eye...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I wanted... I so wanted to be an
dialog: artist. But -- it just never turned
dialog: out good.
text: Margaret stares, seething.
text: Then, without comment, she storms away. She SLAMS the door
dialog: shut. BANG!
text: Walter doesn't move.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NEXT MORNING
text: Margaret makes Jane breakfast, scrambling up eggs.
text: Jane glances over her shoulder -- and notices Walter in the
text: living room, asleep on the couch.
text: An awkward pause. Jane says nothing.
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM - LATER
text: Margaret is making the bed. Straightening the pillows.
text: In the b.g., Walter silently creeps into view. Shamefully
text: standing in the doorway. Not speaking...
text: Margaret knows he's there, but doesn't acknowledge his
text: presence. Finally, without making eye contact --
dialog: 70.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I don't want you sleeping in this room
dialog: any longer. I -- I can't keep living
dialog: these lies.
speaker_heading: (SHARP)
dialog: There's three extra bedrooms. Go pick
dialog: one.
text: He nods.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - LATER
text: Margaret sits, unmoving, trapped in the big house. Outside, a
text: JAPANESE GARDENER trims the hedges.
text: Margaret stares at the walls, a smothering Walter Hall of
text: Fame: Framed magazine articles on Walter, smugly posed with
dialog: the Waifs.
text: She swallows, then gently opens a dresser drawer. Inside is
text: an ORIGINAL WAIF from long ago. A small oil of Jane, when she
dialog: was a toddler.
text: Margaret stares... and then her face slowly crumbles.
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM - DAY
text: Margaret huddles with a SKETCHPAD. Rembrandt is at her feet.
text: She's drawing. She looks up, as Walter anxiously enters.
text: He's holding a drink. He clears his throat.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What are you working on?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: A new MDH. Something for me. It's
text: about a woman trapped in an uncaring
dialog: world. I call it, "Escape."
text: Walter bites his lip, afraid to talk.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I figured out a solution to our
dialog: problems.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Teach me.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Show me your tricks. Then you can
dialog: pass off the Waifs, and we won't be
dialog: lying anymore.
text: She looks up in disbelief.
dialog: 71.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: And then -- YOU'LL paint them?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Sure! Why not?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (OFFENDED)
dialog: Walter, this isn't paint-by-numbers!
dialog: You think it's easy?! It took me
dialog: years to learn --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Y-you're right!
speaker_heading: (SHEEPISH)
dialog: But you know me! I'm a quick study.
dialog: And I've got the basics...
text: He trails off, unsure where this is going.
text: Trying to rouse her, Walter rushes to an easel and throws up a
text: blank canvas. She eyeballs him.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: If you knew the basics, you wouldn't
dialog: be at the easel. You have to sketch
dialog: it first!
text: Walter tightens, feeling stupid. He lets go of the canvas.
text: Margaret stares, deciding. Then, she tosses him a PAD.
text: Walter catches it. Slowly, he crosses over...
scene_heading: ANGLE - MARGARET AND WALTER
text: They peer at each other, like a Mexican standoff. Then, he
text: nervously picks up a pencil.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: So...? What's first?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I dunno. You tell me. You're the
dialog: creator.
text: He frowns.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: It's a -- Keane.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Oh, a Keane! How witty.
speaker_heading: (SARCASTIC)
dialog: You know, when we met all those years
dialog: ago, I never would've imagined in my
dialog: wildest dreams that one day --
dialog: 72.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: YEAH YEAH! Point taken. I'm standing
text: here naked and humiliated in front of
dialog: you. Look... can we just do a crying
dialog: child?
text: She gazes at him. Fingering her pencil...
text: Trying to jump-start things, he starts to draw a circle --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: How old is the subject?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Huh? C'mon, it's a head --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
text: It matters! A young child's head is
text: round. An older child's head is oval!
text: He feels pressured. Hand shaking, he draws a crooked circle.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: The child is this old!
speaker_heading: (ANGRY)
dialog: You're trying to make this difficult --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: NO I'M NOT! Every line is a decision!
speaker_heading: (IMPASSIONED)
dialog: It's easy to talk about art, but it's
dialog: not easy to MAKE art!!
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM - MONTAGE:
text: Margaret easily outlines a head, then two circles for eyes.
text: Walter tries copying, but his eyes are misshapen.
text: Again, Walter copies, but he's wobbly. Angry, he scratches it
dialog: out.
text: Margaret tries to help, guiding his hand. Insulted, he pushes
text: her off. He CRUMPLES the page.
text: NEW TACTIC: Walter grabs her sketch. He puts it on a LIGHT-
text: TABLE. Despairing, he starts to trace it..
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Walter finally paints. We can't see the canvas, but he's very
text: meticulous. His expression quite earnest. He adds a final
text: flourish... and then... a flicker of pride crosses his face.
text: He smiles.
dialog: 73.
dialog: 
text: We slowly MOVE AROUND... to REVEAL HIS PAINTING. And...
dialog: it's... absolutely dreadful. Kindergarten quality.
text: Walter stares.
text: Then, he furtively glances at Margaret's work. Comparing...
text: The realization slowly sinks in. He has no ability.
text: A sadness swells into fury... and suddenly Walter GRABS HIS
text: CANVAS and SMASHES IT AGAINST THE EASEL. CRASH!! The canvas
text: SHREDS. The frame blasts into pieces!
text: Walter spins. He glares at one of Margaret's finished
text: Waifs... then explodes, even more enraged. HE PICKS UP
text: MARGARET'S PAINTING AND STARTS TO SWING IT AT THE WALL --
speaker_heading: MARGARET (O.S.)
dialog: Walter!!
text: Huh? He lurches, startled.
scene_heading: ACROSS THE ROOM
text: Margaret stares him down.
text: Sweaty, chest heaving, Walter staggers towards her. His face
text: scowls, untamed. He clenches his fist, like he might attack
speaker_heading: MARGARET --
text: Then -- he SCREAMS and smashes her CANVAS. BAM!!! The
text: painting RIPS apart. Walter KICKS his foot through the
text: remains, then spins and charges from the room.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. KEANE GALLERY - DAY
text: TOURIST FAMILIES mill about. Suddenly the door SLAMS open.
text: Walter bolts in, wild-eyed. A bit deranged.
text: The families gawk -- glancing from Walter to his photograph
text: all over: "WALTER KEANE! THE WORLD'S TOP-SELLING ARTIST!"
text: Walter ignores them. He rushes a buxom REDHEADED CLERK.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: How's SALES?
speaker_heading: REDHEAD CLERK
dialog: Oh, you know. Mondays --
text: Walter MUTTERS strangely. He snatches some paper and starts
text: scribbling. Then he runs into the
dialog: 74.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STORAGE ROOM
text: Walter agitatedly paces, circling the stacks of PRINTS.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: How many posters are back here?
speaker_heading: REDHEAD CLERK
dialog: Exactly? I dunno, 3,000 or --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Does the printer owe us more? Do we
dialog: owe him??
speaker_heading: REDHEAD CLERK
dialog: Uh, let me --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What about the OILS?! Are there more
dialog: at the warehouse?
speaker_heading: REDHEAD CLERK
dialog: Mr. Keane, I'd have to make a --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: For the LOVE OF MUD! What am I PAYING
dialog: you for?
text: The girl freezes, rattled. Walter spins, flipping out.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Hypothetical question: If you were a
dialog: man, would you marry Kim Novak or my
dialog: wife?
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Okay! Different question! If I got
dialog: crippled and had to stop painting, how
dialog: long before the gallery ran out of
dialog: inventory and went belly up??
speaker_heading: REDHEAD CLERK
speaker_heading: (RATTLED)
dialog: Do you want a glass of water, Mr.
dialog: Keane?
text: Walter sighs. His thoughts drift away...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What's it all mean? Why are we put on
dialog: this earth? A 100 years from now,
dialog: will people even know we existed...?
dialog: 75.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: REDHEAD CLERK
speaker_heading: (UNCOMFORTABLE)
dialog: I -- I don't understand. You'll
dialog: always be famous. You were on the
dialog: Jack Paar Show...
dialog: (she glances away)
dialog: Er, excuse me, sir.
text: The girl hurries away, to ring up some customers.
text: Walter silently watches. At the register, the Tourists buy a
text: print. A "Madonna and Child," MDH-style.
text: BAMMM! Walter's eyes bulge, like he's been stung.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: It's not even mine! It's one of hers.
text: Aching, he staggers off. Sweating, woozy, he sits at a table.
text: Distracted, he glances down at a newspaper...
scene_heading: INSERT - NEWSPAPER
text: There's an article on the 1964 NEW YORK WORLD'S FAIR. A
text: headline says "CONSTRUCTION RACES TOWARD APRIL OPENING"
scene_heading: TIGHT - WALTER
text: His eyes narrow, piqued. World's Fair??? He leans in...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BISTRO - NIGHT
text: A return to the charming bistro Margaret and Walter went to
dialog: all those years ago, on their first date. The Maitre'd BEAMS.
speaker_heading: MAITRE'D
dialog: Ah! Monsieur and Madame Keane!
dialog: Delighted! Always such an honor!
text: ANGLE on the Keanes. They are sullen. At wit's end.
scene_heading: AT THE TABLE - LATER
text: They stiffly sit at their old table. He snarls, eyes black.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: This doesn't change anything.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (trying to hold her ground)
dialog: I know the truth.
dialog: 76.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Who cares?! This is all your fault!
dialog: Maybe it's time to shake things up.
dialog: Start puttin' my name on the MDH's.
text: Margaret is astonished. A fury crosses her face.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: NO! Absolutely NOT!! I still hate
dialog: myself for giving you the Waifs!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Quiet! Lower your voice --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Oh, I'll talk as LOUD AS I WANT --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: NO YOU WON'T! Or --
speaker_heading: (FLAILING)
dialog: I'll have you whacked!
text: She jerks, flabbergasted.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What??!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: If you tell ANYONE, if you squeal,
dialog: I'll take you out! I -- I know
dialog: people. Remember Banducci's cousin?
dialog: The liquor wholesaler?
text: Pause. Margaret breaks into tears.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You're threatening me...?! Fine, kill
dialog: me! My God, I've kept our secret for
dialog: years! I've never once --
speaker_heading: (CRYING)
dialog: Do you know what it's been like for
dialog: me? I don't have any friends. I've
dialog: lied to my own child...
text: Margaret shudders, distraught. Mascara runs down her cheeks.
text: Walter squirms, uneasy with this.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Christ, wipe your face! You look a
dialog: mess.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: It's life imitating art! A crying
dialog: Keane!
text: He hands her his handkerchief. She dabs at her eyes.
text: A looming quiet.
dialog: 77.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What do you want, Walter? Everything
dialog: with you is calculated. We're back
dialog: where we had our first date...
text: Walter's eyes widen.
text: We MOVE IN TIGHT on them. He drops his voice. Dead serious.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Look, I don't deny I need you. You're
dialog: the one with the gift.
speaker_heading: (BEAT; HUSHED)
dialog: Right now there's a shot... God, I'm
dialog: shaking I'm so excited. The New York
text: World's Fair. 70 million visitors.
text: Opening day, I unveil my MASTERPIECE!
text: She is flummoxed.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What masterpiece?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Exactly! What have I been missing all
dialog: this time?! Da Vinci has his Mona
dialog: Lisa... Renoir has his Boatmen's
dialog: Lunch... but where's my defining
dialog: statement?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You sound insane. Artists don't
dialog: announce a masterpiece --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Why not?! Didn't Michelangelo know he
dialog: was hittin' a homer, when he was on
dialog: his back painting the Sistine Chapel?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: He worked on that for FOUR YEARS!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Posterity, baby...!!
text: She empties her drink.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: And here's the best part. It's for
dialog: Unicef! Unicef is sponsoring the Hall
dialog: of Education. Aw, we can finally give
dialog: back to the children of the world!!
text: Margaret stares, wavering...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 78.
dialog: 
text: STOCK FOOTAGE: The 1964 WORLD'S FAIR READIES TO OPEN. Men on 109
text: cranes hammer away. Fantastic, futuristic pavilions rise.
dialog: The Hall of Education gets erected...
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM - DAY
text: ANGLE - An INSANELY BIG, BLANK CANVAS. It's 8 feet across,
text: filling half the room. Margaret is in the throes of hastily
text: creating the MASTERPIECE.
text: Sketches are tacked everywhere. Margaret is chain smoking,
text: sleep-deprived. The DESIGN is a staggering multiracial CROWD
text: of children, mournful, extending to the horizon.
text: Walter enters, silently scrutinizing.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: It's too big. Why'd you promise them
dialog: Cinerama size?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Because it has to encompass all
dialog: children. All races! One hundred
dialog: stricken faces! Marching to infinity!
dialog: The ultimate Walter Keane!
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: At least that's what I told Life
dialog: Magazine.
text: Margaret ignores this. Walter does a rehearsed turn.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Oh, a publisher says it's good timing
dialog: to put out a coffee table book. You
dialog: know, classy: "Tomorrow's Masters."
scene_heading: (AWKWARDLY "CASUAL")
dialog: So they need my... uh, early
dialog: portfolio. My artistic evolution...
text: Margaret's eyes pop.
text: That's it. We PUSH IN... as she struggles to contain her
text: frustration. Suddenly -- she SNAPS.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You're right! Where are your
dialog: preliminary sketches?? All that time
dialog: in art school, and somehow we waylaid
dialog: your youthful experiments! The half-
dialog: finished charcoals, the struggles...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: (a bit off-balance)
dialog: I know you're being sarcastic, but
dialog: these are all good ideas. Berlin war
dialog: orphans... early self-portraits...
dialog: 79.
dialog: 
text: Her eyes narrow.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Get out of here. I'm trying to work.
text: She brusquely spins away, back to the canvas.
text: He shoots her an uncertain, dirty look. What just happened?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Teenage Jane wanders through the house. Shouting.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Mom, what's for dinner?
speaker_heading: (NO RESPONSE)
dialog: Mom! Are you home...?
text: Nothing. No sign of Margaret.
text: Jane tries the door of the PAINTING ROOM. As always, it's
text: locked. Hm... Jane sneakily glances around. Opportunity.
text: Quickly, she stands on a chair and reaches above the door
text: sill. She feels around... and finds a KEY.
text: Ah! Hurriedly, Jane UNLOCKS the door and lets herself in.
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM - SAME TIME
text: The room is a madhouse of WAIFS. Jane takes it all in. Her
text: face darkens.
text: Then, heavy breathing. She turns. Margaret is asleep, curled
text: up under the almost-finished Masterpiece. Jane leans in.
text: Slowly, Margaret rouses -- then suddenly:
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: W-what are you doing in here --?
scene_heading: (BLINKING; HALF-AWAKE)
dialog: This is -- Walter's studio!
speaker_heading: (DISCOMBOBULATED)
dialog: You have to leave!
text: Jane peers sadly at her mother.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Mom... I know.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Jane, you don't know anything!!
text: Jane's face tightens. Insulted.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: I'm not a child anymore.
dialog: 80.
dialog: 
text: Angry, Jane runs out. Margaret stares after her -- completely
text: remorseful. She knows she did the wrong thing.
text: Suddenly, she runs after Jane and grabs her tightly.
text: Overcome, Margaret starts weeping. Jane starts crying too.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSERT - LIFE MAGAZINE
text: A gargantuan spread. The LIFE ARTICLE is titled "The Man Who
dialog: Paints Those Big Eyes." We PULL OUT...
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK TIMES - DAY
text: Starchy John Canaday reads the article, gaping in utter
text: disbelief. His desk says "JOHN CANADAY, SENIOR ART CRITIC."
text: He also has Walter's BOOK, "Tomorrow's Masters Series." We
text: WIDEN, revealing he's in the busy New York Times NEWSROOM.
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: Four... five... SIX pages! Is there
dialog: something here I'm missing?
speaker_heading: (UPSET)
dialog: He's like -- the Hula-Hoop! He just
dialog: won't go away...!
text: He flips a page -- then his jaw drops.
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: "Will be unveiled in the Grand
dialog: Pavilion of the Hall of Education...
dialog: internationally celebrated artist has
dialog: been selected... will represent the
dialog: aspirations of children worldwide --"
speaker_heading: (HE GASPS)
dialog: Oh this is ABSURD!
text: He GRABS for his phone.
scene_heading: INT. WORLD'S FAIR HALL OF EDUCATION - DAY
text: A panel flicks, and the huge empty space lights up. It's
text: overwhelmingly cavernous, a bright, freshly-painted Space Age
text: spectacular. Up high hangs The Masterpiece and its 100 kids.
text: A sign says "TOMORROW FOREVER."
text: Below, two tiny figures walk in: Canaday and an obtuse CIVIC
text: LEADER. Canaday stares up in horror. Utterly stupefied.
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: And WHO was on the selection committee?
speaker_heading: CIVIC LEADER
dialog: Oh! Well there wasn't a "committee,"
dialog: per se. We just had a luncheon with
dialog: me, Ed, Jerome, Jerome's wife...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: CIVIC LEADER (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: (HE THINKS)
dialog: Though technically, we didn't invite
dialog: submissions. Mr. Keane just contacted
dialog: us directly!
text: Canaday reacts, smoldering.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK MANSION - DAY
text: A STRING QUARTET PLAYS at a GRAND PARTY. It's completely
text: fabulous -- an old-money mansion filled with stuffy BLUE
text: BLOODS, all tuxes and gowns.
text: In the doorway appear Walter and Margaret. They're dressed to
text: kill. Walter's radiant -- but Margaret looks like she's about
text: to emotionally disintegrate. Suddenly, he WHISPERS.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Stop. Let us appreciate this moment.
dialog: This is what we've worked toward our
text: whole lives: Rarified air. Inside
dialog: this house are the movers and shakers.
dialog: Kennedys. Rockefellers.
speaker_heading: (MISTY-EYED)
dialog: Until today, we've always been on the
dialog: outside, looking in. But when we
dialog: enter... we will belong.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I was happier selling paintings in the
dialog: park.
text: He gapes, appalled.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You are one crazy bitch.
text: Walter spins and grandly enters. He grabs two CHAMPAGNES from
text: a server.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: So maybe you have problems with the
dialog: choices we made... but -- c'mon!
text: Wednesday, the World's Fair opens.
dialog: Thursday, our book goes on sale!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Friday, I file for divorce.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Aw, why are you always so miserable?
speaker_heading: (IRRITATED)
dialog: Well, I'm gonna enjoy my afternoon!
text: The HOSTESS is a bejeweled dowager. Walter makes a beeline.
dialog: 82.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Mrs. Teasdale! Walter Keane. I just
dialog: want to thank you for hosting this
dialog: absolutely enchanting soiree.
text: Walter takes the woman's hand. She smiles stiffly, silently
text: horrified. She glances around for help.
text: She catches a SOCIETY MAN's eye, and he hurries over.
speaker_heading: SOCIETY MAN
dialog: Hey, Keane. Have you seen the Times?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Er, no. Honestly, I've been so busy
dialog: all day preparing for this lovely --
speaker_heading: SOCIETY MAN
dialog: I think you should read the Times.
text: The Man gestures. Perplexed, the Keanes follow him into a
scene_heading: INT. DEN - SAME TIME
text: The room looks like a hunting lodge. On the desk are all the
text: DAILY PAPERS. Walter grabs the NEW YORK TIMES -- then gasps.
scene_heading: INSERT - NEW YORK TIMES
text: It's open to a reproduction of "Tomorrow Forever," above a
text: scathing REVIEW.
speaker_heading: THE KEANES
text: stare, then turn pale.
speaker_heading: INSERT - REVIEW
text: A BLIZZARD of WORDS assaults us:
scene_heading: "GROTESQUE" "APPALLING"
speaker_heading: "TASTELESS"
dialog: "Lowest common denominator"
scene_heading: MARGARET AND WALTER'S
text: faces drop, terribly hurt.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: How could anyone... say something so
dialog: cruel?
dialog: 83.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: (a seething fury)
dialog: What do YOU care?! That's MY name
dialog: being dragged through the mud!
text: Walter CRUSHES the newspaper. He spins on the guy.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Is he here?
speaker_heading: SOCIETY MAN
dialog: Er... yes. Which is perhaps why it
dialog: would be best for everybody if you --
text: Walter STORMS out. The guy futilely chases --
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME TIME
text: Walter barrels in. The ROOMFUL OF GUESTS are all staring.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: WHO WROTE THIS SHIT?
dialog: People cower.
text: Walter scans the crowd... and spots a cluster. Ah-hah! There
text: is Canaday. Possessed, Walter strides over. Canaday stares,
text: defiant. It's tense -- until he clears his throat.
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: Mr. Keane, this is not the venue.
dialog: Perhaps you'd like to write a letter
dialog: to the editor.
text: Walter's throat tightens. He steps right into the guy's face.
text: Women GASP. Tension bristles -- like a fight's about to erupt.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What are you afraid of??
speaker_heading: (MALEVOLENT)
dialog: Just because people like my work, that
dialog: means it's automatically bad??
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: No. But that doesn't make it art
dialog: either.
text: Walter shudders. Canaday asserts himself.
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: Art should elevate -- not pander!
dialog: Particularly in a Hall of Education!
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (OFFENDED)
dialog: You have no idea!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: WALTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Why does a man become a critic --??
dialog: Because he can't create! You don't --
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: Ugh! That moldy chestnut --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Don't interrupt! You don't know what
dialog: it's like! To put your emotions out
text: there, naked, for the world to see.
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: What emotions?! It's synthetic hack
dialog: work!
dialog: (he loses it)
dialog: Your "masterpiece" has an infinity of
dialog: Keanes -- which just makes it an
dialog: infinity of kitsch!
text: Crazed, Walter grabs a FORK off the buffet.
text: He lunges, like he's about to STAB Canaday!
speaker_heading: WIDE
dialog: Women SCREAM.
text: A few MUSCULAR MEN start to break through, to help.
speaker_heading: WALTER
text: looks around -- then quivers, realizing he's out of control.
text: Shamed, he slowly drops the fork.
text: People breathe a sigh of relief.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
text: is mortified. This is all too awful. Silent, she watches
text: Walter back out of the party...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WORLD'S FAIR HALL OF EDUCATION - DAY
text: "Tomorrow Forever" gets TAKEN DOWN. Burly WORKMEN slide the
text: painting into a huge WOODEN BOX.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. KEANE HOUSE - NIGHT
text: The house is dark. Walter is raging, in an alcoholic fury.
dialog: 85.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What's wrong with lowest common
dialog: denominators?! That's what this
dialog: country was built on!!
text: He KNOCKS over a lamp. Crash!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm gonna sue EVERYBODY! I'll sue
dialog: that pansy critic! And the World's
dialog: Fair! And -- Unicef!
speaker_heading: (CRAZED)
dialog: Yeah! I'll take down Unicef, and all
dialog: their precious little boxes of dimes!
text: Walter RUSHES BY. In a dim alcove, we make out Margaret and
text: Jane, huddled in the shadows.
text: Jane looks up at her mother with wide, frightened eyes.
text: Suddenly -- Walter LUNGES at them!
text: They SCREAM, startled.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: But I can't sue you, can I?
dialog: (in Margaret's face)
dialog: You were the ultimate betrayal! You
dialog: FAILED me with that painting!
text: Suddenly, he pulls out a BOOK OF MATCHES. He lights a MATCH
text: and waves it sinisterly --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You crossed over from sentimentality
dialog: to KITSCH!
text: He THROWS the match at them.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Ow!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: STOP IT!
text: He lights ANOTHER MATCH.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You like making me look bad?? You
dialog: enjoy people laughing at me??!
text: He PUNCHES the wall, then tosses the match. Fwoosh!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter!
text: He throws ANOTHER MATCH.
dialog: 86.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Margaret grabs Jane and starts running.
text: They rush into the blackness.
text: Walter squints woozily, then starts to CHASE --
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY
text: The ladies run for their lives.
text: Violent THUDS behind them!
dialog: Something SMASHES.
text: Margaret reaches the Painting Room. She YANKS Jane inside,
dialog: then SLAMS the door!
text: Walter staggers up.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: LET ME IN!
scene_heading: INSIDE THE PAINTING ROOM
text: Margaret LOCKS the door. She backs away.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY
text: Walter tugs the door. He POUNDS it, crazed.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Lemme in, you BITCHES!!
scene_heading: INSIDE THE PAINTING ROOM
text: Margaret and Jane shudder.
text: All around them, Big Eyes stare down from above.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY
text: In his haze, Walter remembers the hidden key. Raging, he
text: drunkenly pulls over the chair, then stands on it.
text: But he's too wobbly -- and falls.
dialog: Bam!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ow!
scene_heading: INSIDE THE PAINTING ROOM
text: Margaret hugs Jane.
dialog: 87.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Mom, what are we gonna do??!
dialog: Margaret thinks.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY
text: Walter laughs crazily and lights another MATCH. It flickers.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You got all that paint and turpentine
dialog: in there? Well I'm gonna burn you up!
text: He pushes the lit match through the KEYHOLE.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: You're gonna blow like an atom bomb!
scene_heading: INSIDE THE PAINTING ROOM
text: The match drops on the floor -- then goes out, harmless.
text: That's it. Margaret makes a decision.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: We're leaving.
text: Determined, Margaret runs to the curtained wall. She whips it
text: aside -- revealing the sliding glass doors.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MINUTES LATER
text: Walter is lighting another match -- when he spins. Through
text: rheumy eyes, HEADLIGHTS orbit across the front window.
text: He peers, confused...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CAR - DRIVING - NIGHT
text: Margaret and Jane drive fast. Adrenaline pumping. Lights of
text: the city flash across their faces.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I'm sorry I wasn't the mother I could
dialog: have been. I -- I should have done
dialog: this years ago...
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: But where are we going?
speaker_heading: (FLUMMOXED)
dialog: We don't even have any clothes!
dialog: 88.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Where we're going, we won't need much.
speaker_heading: (LONG PAUSE)
dialog: Hawaii.
text: Jane freezes, not sure whether to believe.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Really...?
text: Margaret smiles softly. We slowly PUSH IN to her.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Yes, Hawaii. Because it's paradise.
dialog: There's flowers, and birds, and
text: beautiful colors.
speaker_heading: (GENTLE)
dialog: And... we're going to make a new life
dialog: for ourselves.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HAWAIIAN HOUSE - DAY
text: Hawaii, paradise indeed. A dense, tropical forest of deep
text: greens and giant blooming flowers.
text: Margaret stands on the porch of her small, lovely house,
text: breathing in the clean air. She looks lightened.
text: In a clearing, Jane plays with some LOCAL TEENS.
scene_heading: INT. HAWAIIAN HOUSE - SAME TIME
text: The house is simple. In one light-filled corner is an EASEL.
text: Margaret is painting Nature: Splaying ferns. Wild succulents.
text: In the window, a BIRD flies by, its plumage a dazzling red.
text: Margaret thinks -- then takes out a tube of RED PAINT. She
text: starts to apply the vivid color onto her canvas...
text: When -- a RINGING PHONE. Margaret reacts, startled.
text: This is unexpected. And unsettling. It RINGS. RINGS.
text: RINGS. Finally, she hurries to her one telephone, mounted on
text: the kitchen wall. She slowly answers it.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: WALTER (O.S.)
dialog: Maggie --?
text: She freezes.
speaker_heading: INTERCUT:
dialog: 89.
dialog: 
scene_heading: WALTER ON THE PHONE - WOODSIDE
text: He is strangely controlled and forboding.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Boy, you were sure hard to track down.
dialog: Thought I might never find you...
dialog: (a menacing chuckle)
dialog: I'm a little agitated. I got the
dialog: strangest papers in the mail today.
text: Margaret tries to stay cool.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: It's a decree of legal separation. I
dialog: would appreciate if you signed it.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Aren't you acting too rash?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter, our marriage is over.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Granted, our romance may have seen its
text: better days. The bloom is off the
dialog: rose.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: But I'm looking out for both of us.
dialog: What about Keane Incorporated?! We're
dialog: a professional couple. Like Roy
dialog: Rogers and Dale Evans.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Walter, I want a divorce.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Whew. It hurts to hear you say those
dialog: words.
text: Silence. He is feigning "hurt feelings." Struggling for a
text: response. Finally, his thoughts sharpen up, smart and shrewd.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I sure hate that it's come to this.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Well... I SUPPOSE I can agree to a
dialog: split -- as long... as you assign me
dialog: all rights to every painting ever
dialog: produced.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: If that's the price.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Really?!
dialog: 90.
dialog: 
text: Walter is surprised. Greedy, calculating, he wonders if he
dialog: can push her further...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Uh -- okay. And... then, we have to
dialog: consider future revenue stream.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: My God, Walter! How much more money
dialog: do you need?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: It's -- the marketplace! I gotta stay
dialog: fresh. Surely you understand?
speaker_heading: (DEADLY)
dialog: You want me out of your life, here's
dialog: my term: You'll have to paint me 100
dialog: more waifs. 100 more Walter Keanes!
text: Margaret's face drops, pained. But she doesn't object.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HAWAIIAN HOUSE - DAY
text: Margaret loads BUNDLED, WRAPPED PAINTINGS into a dusty pickup
text: truck. Jane comes running by, barefoot.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Would you like to go into town? I'm
text: stopping by the post office.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: No, I'm gonna surf with the gang.
text: Margaret tightens up.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Your friends are a bit... wild.
speaker_heading: JANE
speaker_heading: (SHE SNAPS)
dialog: Loosen up, Mom! You're impossible!
dialog: You move me all the way to Hawaii.
dialog: Then I actually make some friends, and
dialog: all you do is complain about them.
speaker_heading: (CUTTING)
dialog: Maybe you need to make some.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Y-you know I can't have people over to
dialog: the house.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: That's right! Or they'd see the
dialog: precious paintings!!
dialog: 91.
dialog: 
text: Margaret has no response. Jane runs off.
scene_heading: INT. HAWAIIAN HOUSE - DAY
text: Margaret is alone, pouring a drink. She mixes in some ice --
text: then sees something odd.
text: OUTSIDE THE WINDOW
text: Coming down the long driveway are two FIGURES. Two small
text: WOMEN, patiently walking toward the isolated house.
text: Margaret stares, puzzled. The women come closer. They are
text: Asian, dressed in formal dresses. Curious, Margaret creeps
text: over, spying on them...
text: They walk up and ring the bell. DING-DONG! An unsure beat...
text: then Margaret opens the door. The ladies smile politely.
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #1
dialog: Hello. We're visiting everyone in
dialog: this neighborhood with an important
dialog: message. No doubt you're busy, so
dialog: we'll be brief.
dialog: Huh?
text: Margaret stares at them deadpan, highball in her hand.
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #2
dialog: We have something to share with you
dialog: about the wonderful things that God's
dialog: Kingdom will do for mankind.
text: Margaret's face darkens.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I'm not interested.
text: She starts to close the door... but they continue.
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #1
dialog: Do you mean that you are not
dialog: interested in the Bible, or in
dialog: religion in general?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I'm not interested in whatever you're
dialog: selling.
text: The lady glances at Margaret's glass. She smiles gently.
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #2
dialog: But we're not selling anything. We're
dialog: just here to share the good news.
dialog: 92.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
speaker_heading: (DOUR)
text: From where I'm standing, I don't see
dialog: much good anywhere. Just a lot of
dialog: pride, and thievery, and people
text: treating each other poorly.
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #2
dialog: Yes! Exactly! That is the good news!
text: What? Margaret is lost. The ladies grab the opening.
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #1
dialog: Bad things in the world are a sign.
dialog: They show us that earthly Paradise is
dialog: at hand.
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #2
dialog: Do you know what it says in Timothy
dialog: 3:1-5?
text: (she pulls out a BIBLE and
dialog: quickly thumbs to a page)
dialog: "In the last days, critical times hard
dialog: to deal with will be here. For men
dialog: will be lovers of themselves. Lovers
text: of money. Self-assuming, haughty,
dialog: blasphemers, disobedient --"
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Sounds like my ex-husband.
text: Margaret laughs. Surprised, the women laugh, too.
text: Margaret peers at them. At their Bible.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Would you like to come in?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The three women sit. Margaret gazes...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: It's been so long since I've been
dialog: happy. But, I don't even know why I'm
dialog: telling you... two complete strangers.
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #1
dialog: It's our mission to comfort those in
dialog: mourning. Jehovah wants us to help
text: the brokenhearted.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: So you're -- Jehovah's Witnesses?
dialog: 93.
dialog: 
text: The ladies nod.
dialog: Margaret thinks.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I've explored so many religions. But
dialog: they all had their flaws...
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #2
dialog: Then they're wrong for you. Read your
dialog: Bible -- you might be surprised by the
dialog: answers it gives.
speaker_heading: (GENTLE)
dialog: Margaret, you can't go down a path
dialog: unless you know, in your heart, it's
dialog: the right one.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: And how do you know...?
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #2
speaker_heading: (SHE SMILES)
dialog: Because our beliefs are supported by
dialog: the Scriptures. Jehovah is the God of
dialog: truth.
dialog: Beat.
text: Margaret glances over at a half-completed "Keane" on the
text: easel. A strange pause.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What does that mean, exactly?
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #2
speaker_heading: (EMPHATIC)
dialog: Honesty leads to self-respect. A
dialog: feeling of well-being.
text: Margaret is piqued. Her eyes widen. Like a Keane.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HAWAIIAN HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Margaret is enthralled, avidly perusing a happy-looking
dialog: booklet, "The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life."
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: It says here a worshiper of Jehovah
dialog: must be honest in all things.
text: Jane snorts.
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: I just can't believe you let people in
dialog: the house.
dialog: 94.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I have nothing to hide!
speaker_heading: (TORRID)
dialog: It also says no lies. "Speak truth.
dialog: Let the stealer steal no more."
text: Margaret and Jane lock eyes.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WOODSIDE HOUSE - DAY
text: Loud JAZZ plays. Back home, Walter is living a Man's, Man's
text: World. He's partying, drinking and dancing with two cute
text: HIPPIE CHICKS in bikinis.
text: The place is like a WAREHOUSE, Keane PRINTS stacked everywhere.
speaker_heading: HIPPIE CHICK
dialog: Shit, this is crazy! All these
dialog: copies... you're like Warhol!
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Nah, Warhol's like me. That fruitfly
dialog: stole my act! "The Factory"? I had a
dialog: factory before he had a soup can!
text: The girls scrunch their faces, lost.
text: Then -- DING-DONG! Walter peeks out the window, then grins.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Ah! It's my art supplies.
scene_heading: INT. PAINTING ROOM - SECONDS LATER
text: Alone, Walter eagerly pries open a GIANT CRATE. He pulls out
text: padding. Wadded Honolulu newspapers. Then... a PAINTING.
text: Ah! A new WAIF, surrounded by colorful tropical plants.
text: Walter smiles triumphantly -- until -- his happiness melts
text: into confusion. Then horror.
text: We ZOOM INTO the painting's SIGNATURE. It says "MDH Keane."
dialog: Walter freaks.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: AAAGGGGHH!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HAWAIIAN KINGDOM HALL - DAY
text: The JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES sing a joyous, high-spirited PSALM:
dialog: 95.
dialog: 
scene_heading: JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES
dialog: "Tremble not before your foe,
dialog: Let all lovers of truth know!
dialog: That my reigning Son, Christ Jesus,
text: From the heav'ns has cast the foe.
dialog: Soon will bind the Devil, Satan,
dialog: Letting all his victims go!"
text: Margaret and Jane are singing happily.
scene_heading: INT. HAWAIIAN HOUSE - DAY
text: Margaret pours her liquor down the sink.
text: Margaret tosses her cigarettes in the trash.
text: Margaret swells, feeling a burst of power. Then a VOICE:
speaker_heading: D.J. (O.S.)
dialog: Oh yeah! We got a special guest
dialog: today. A world-famous celebrity who
dialog: just called up and asked to come in..!
scene_heading: INT. RADIO BOOTH - DAY
text: Angle on BIG LOLO, a gregarious Hawaiian D.J. in headphones.
dialog: D.J.
dialog: She's malihini! Moved to the islands
dialog: a couple months ago... so let's give a
dialog: big aloha to Margaret Keane!
text: He pops in a cart. Canned APPLAUSE plays. We reveal across
text: from him... Margaret. He grins.
dialog: D.J.
dialog: So is it true your husband Walter is
dialog: the top-selling painter in the world?
text: We SLOWLY PUSH IN to her. Tentative, she speaks.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No... Big Lolo. Everything you just
dialog: said is false.
text: Margaret takes a deep breath. Working up her courage.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: One: Walter is no longer my husband.
dialog: (a long pause)
dialog: And Two: He's not... a painter.
text: Margaret exhales.
text: The D.J. is confused. He checks his notes.
dialog: 96.
dialog: 
dialog: D.J.
dialog: But, am I... mixed-up? Ain't he the
dialog: guy who does the crazy eyes?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: No. Though he's been taking credit
dialog: for ten years.
speaker_heading: (STRONG)
dialog: I'm the only painter in the family.
text: Margaret slowly smiles.
text: And then... a calmness comes over her. Like a cloud has
dialog: lifted.
scene_heading: INT. RADIO STATION HALLWAY - DAY
text: Margaret and Jane walk away. Jane beams proudly, then gives
text: her mother a warm hug.
scene_heading: Then -- LOUD CLICKING:
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK TIMES - DAY
text: John Canaday stands over a WIRE SERVICE TELETYPE MACHINE. He
text: stares at a printout, incredulous.
speaker_heading: CANADAY
dialog: You have got to be kidding!
scene_heading: INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - DAY
text: TIGHT - The San Francisco Examiner. A small headline says
text: "EYE DID IT! CLAIMS WIFE"
text: We PULL OUT, revealing Dee-Ann. She grins in disbelief.
speaker_heading: DEE-ANN
dialog: I knew it!!!
scene_heading: INT. SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER - DICK'S CUBICLE - DAY
text: Dick Nolan reads the article -- and SPITS UP his martini.
scene_heading: INT. HUNGRY I - DAY
text: Banducci CACKLES, terribly amused.
scene_heading: INT. ART GALLERY - DAY
text: Ruben SHRIEKS at the article.
speaker_heading: RUBEN
dialog: Who would WANT credit?!
dialog: 97.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY
text: Walter sits in his favorite haunt, eating lunch and reading a
text: NEWSPAPER. Suddenly -- he GASPS.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Holy mother of GOD!
text: Walter JERKS UP -- feral -- like an animal sensing danger.
text: He whirls and looks around. Paranoia ratcheting. Is
text: everybody staring at him? Walter starts shaking in horror.
text: Then -- he jumps and BOLTS OUT.
scene_heading: INT. BAR - NIGHT
text: Walter sits with Dick. Walter's desperate, sweaty.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Margaret's gone berserk! You gotta
dialog: help me! I need a story, a wire story
dialog: -- national! -- to calm things down.
text: Dick peers shrewdly.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I don't know... Walter. What she has
dialog: said is pretty inflammatory.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: But it's nuts! It doesn't even make
dialog: sense. When I was studying art at the
dialog: Beaux Arts in Paris, she was still a
dialog: kid in Tennessee!
text: Dick reacts. Walter whips out the "Tomorrow's Master's" BOOK.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Look! These are my early sketches.
text: (he flips pages, like a
speaker_heading: MAGICIAN)
dialog: See?! Berlin orphans, 1946!
speaker_heading: DICK
speaker_heading: (PIQUED)
dialog: But... how could she...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Exactly! It's impossible! We didn't
dialog: meet for another nine years! After
dialog: she busted her first marriage.
speaker_heading: (HE SHRUGS)
dialog: Hell, she busted OUR marriage!
dialog: Sleeping around with whatever trash
dialog: she could find!!
text: Dick's head is spinning.
dialog: 98.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I-I, but... why would Maggie do this?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: She's unhinged! She left me and moved
text: into the jungle. She fell in with a
dialog: bunch of religious zealots:
speaker_heading: (WHISPERING)
dialog: Jehovah's Witnesses.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I really don't know much about them...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Oh! These people are gone! Solid
dialog: gone! They don't celebrate Christmas,
dialog: they can't salute the flag... they
dialog: won't even let Janie go to the prom!
text: Dick is startled.
scene_heading: INT. HAWAIIAN HOUSE - DAY
text: Margaret sits with a GROUP of her Witness friends. She is
text: sorrowful. Confused. Clutching ASSORTED NEWSPAPERS.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: He made me sound crazy!!
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #2
text: Just rise above it.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: But how can I?! He claims I copied
dialog: HIM! That he taught ME how to paint!
speaker_heading: (reading the NEWSPAPER)
dialog: "She used a slide projector to trace
dialog: my work and fill in the colors."
speaker_heading: ASIAN LADY #1
dialog: And which part of that is untrue?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: ALL OF IT!
speaker_heading: (IMPASSIONED)
dialog: When I finally told the truth, I felt
dialog: good about myself for the first time
dialog: in years!! I'm not going to let him
dialog: take that away.
text: Nobody is sure what to say. Until -- Jane pipes up:
speaker_heading: JANE
dialog: Hey. Is Jehovah okay with suing??
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 99.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HONOLULU FEDERAL COURTHOUSE - DAY
text: The mighty courtroom steps are SWARMING WITH PEOPLE. It's a
dialog: circus. LOCAL TV NEWS CREWS do standups:
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1
dialog: Seventeen million dollars!
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: The art world is abuzz! Is it
dialog: possible that the decade's top-selling
dialog: painter can't even paint??!
speaker_heading: REPORTER #2
dialog: Or is Mrs. Keane simply a bitter ex-
text: wife, trying to steal her husband's
dialog: fame and fortune?
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Today in Federal Court, lawyers
dialog: present their opening arguments in the
dialog: case of Margaret Keane vs. Walter
dialog: Keane and Gannett Newspapers. A trial
dialog: that could produce the largest libel
dialog: and slander award in Hawaiian history.
text: Margaret, Jane, Margaret's LAWYER, and her FRIENDS walk up.
text: Margaret glances over -- and spots FEMINIST SUPPORTERS smiling
text: at her. They hold up signs: "Stand Up and Be Counted!"
text: Margaret is bewildered. She hurries in.
speaker_heading: AT THE CURB
text: Walter and a POSSE OF LAWYERS exit a towncar. The REPORTERS
text: charge over, as Walter puts on a confident face.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1
dialog: Mr. Keane! Are you at all concerned
dialog: about the charges?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm angry as hell! But I'm lucky to
dialog: have the mighty Gannett News Company
dialog: watching my back. I expect to have
dialog: this whole trial dismissed by noon.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Truthfully, my only concern is that
dialog: somebody get this woman some
dialog: psychiatric care. She needs it!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FEDERAL COURTROOM - LATER
text: The EIGHT JURORS watch attentively. Walter sits with the
text: table of slick Gannett lawyers. The lead lawyer stands in
text: front of the irritable Chinese JUDGE.
dialog: 100.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GANNETT LAWYER
dialog: Margaret Keane is a public figure.
dialog: And as such, she has to prove that our
dialog: newspapers published statements, aware
dialog: of probable falsity.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: But there is no evidence that our
dialog: editors could have known that the
dialog: assertions were untrue.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: We would like to submit 692 articles
dialog: and interviews in which Mrs. Keane
dialog: credits Mr. Keane as the painter of
dialog: the so-called "big eye" children.
text: His Associate hands two massive bound PILES OF NEWSPAPERS AND
text: MAGAZINES to the BAILIFF.
text: Margaret winces.
text: Walter grins, eating it up.
text: The Judge stares sourly at the piles.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: How many years back do these go?
speaker_heading: GANNETT LAWYER
dialog: Mrs. Keane has been making these
dialog: statements since 1958.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: This is a very strange case. These
dialog: paintings hang in museums all over the
dialog: world, attributed to Mr. Keane. And
dialog: regardless of the truth, Mrs. Keane
dialog: has contributed immeasurably to the
dialog: confusion...
text: The Judge stares off... then makes a decision.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: It seems impossible that Gannett's
dialog: actions would ever meet the legal
dialog: standard for libel. So -- the charge
dialog: against them is dismissed.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: The Lawyer smiles, relieved.
speaker_heading: GANNETT LAWYER
dialog: Thank you, Your Honor!
dialog: 101.
dialog: 
text: Walter peers, comprehending... and then, a realization slowly
text: kicks in. His face turns to horror.
text: The Lawyer nods humbly, then spins away. He smirks at Walter.
speaker_heading: GANNETT LAWYER
dialog: Good luck, Keane.
text: AT THE DEFENSE TABLE
text: The ENTIRE LEGAL TEAM jumps up and begins packing their
text: briefcases.
text: Walter sputters in astonishment.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: "Good luck"? W-where the hell are you
dialog: going?!
speaker_heading: GANNETT LAWYER
dialog: We were charged with libel. You're
dialog: charged with slander.
speaker_heading: (BLASE)
dialog: Just dance your way out of it.
text: The Lawyers file out, leaving Walter alone at the table.
text: He looks very small and pale. The Judge peers quizzically.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Mr. Keane, you appear to be without
dialog: counsel. Would you like a
dialog: postponement, in order to get your
dialog: affairs in order?
text: Walter glances over at Margaret. She stifles a laugh.
text: He glares daggers. Then, cocksure, foolhardy, he jumps to his
dialog: feet.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I've always taken care of myself, Your
dialog: Honor. And I don't need a bunch of
dialog: rent-a-suits to defend my good name!
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Let's PROCEED!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSERT - WIRE SERVICE TELETYPE MACHINE
text: Words type out: "AP - HONOLULU - KEANE TRIAL TAKES STARTLING
speaker_heading: TURN"
dialog: 102.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INSERT - ANOTHER WIRE SERVICE MACHINE
text: More words type out: "UPI - HONOLULU - HE'S A PAINTER... AND A
dialog: LAWYER?"
scene_heading: INT. DICK NOLAN'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Dick frantically types at his typewriter.
speaker_heading: DICK (V.O.)
dialog: I'm concerned about my old pal Walter
dialog: Keane. The Hawaiian heat may have
dialog: cooked his brain! The only thing he
dialog: knows about courtrooms and lawyers
text: comes from watching Perry Mason on
dialog: television!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. COURTROOM - LATER
text: Walter stands down front. Like a Broadway star, center-stage.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm the sole creator of my art. This
dialog: is my total life. My contribution to
dialog: the world --
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Mr. KEANE! I've told you, you must
dialog: ask the witness questions! If you're
dialog: acting as your own attorney, you
dialog: cannot make statements at this time.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Oh. Right! Ah, sorry, Your Honor.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: It's hard to keep this all straight...
text: Walter gathers his thoughts -- then turns to the WITNESS
text: STAND. Sitting in it... is Margaret.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Mrs. Keane. It seems impossible that
dialog: you'd expect anybody to swallow your
dialog: fantastic story --
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: MR. KEANE!!
text: Walter grimaces. He tries again, choosing his words.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Mrs. Keane. You seem like a lucid
dialog: woman. Reasonably intelligent... So
dialog: how could you possibly have gone along
dialog: with such a far-out scheme?
dialog: 103.
dialog: 
text: We slowly MOVE IN ON MARGARET.
text: This is her moment. And then -- quietly, she speaks.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I was forced into it. You had --
text: She stops, bothered by this awkwardness. She looks away from
dialog: Walter, to the Jury instead.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: He had me dominated. He would rant
dialog: and rave if I didn't do what he
dialog: wanted. I was afraid. I didn't see
dialog: any option, so I went along. I felt
dialog: very bad...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: (like a TV lawyer)
dialog: I want to remind you you are under
dialog: oath.
text: The Judge SLAMS his fists down, enraged. Walter jumps.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: S-sorry.
text: Margaret turns back to the Jury.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I just gave in. I allowed him to take
dialog: credit for the big eyes. They
dialog: reflected all my feelings... and... it
dialog: was like losing a child...
speaker_heading: (SHE SIGHS)
dialog: I was weak. I didn't feel I could
dialog: leave and support myself and my
dialog: daughter. He said nobody would buy
text: the paintings without his personality.
speaker_heading: (SOFT)
dialog: Maybe he was right...
speaker_heading: (TO WALTER)
dialog: You were very talented at being
dialog: charming. You were a genius at
dialog: salesmanship and promotion.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Hm! It sounds like you've described
text: two different men. One a sadistic
dialog: ogre... and the other a delightful bon
dialog: vivant.
text: Margaret stares him in the eyes.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: That's you, Walter. Jekyll and Hyde.
dialog: 104.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What an outrageous statement! I
dialog: demand we strike that from the record!
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: (he SLAMS his fist)
dialog: Overruled!!
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (she loses her temper)
dialog: No! You're outrageous! Constantly
dialog: criticizing! Wearing me down! Saying
dialog: I'd be "knocked off" if I ever told
dialog: the truth!!
dialog: The Jury GASPS.
text: Walter throws out his hands.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Your HONOR! I ask for a mistrial!
text: Both Keanes starts QUARRELING. The Judge STANDS.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: HEY! This is not a domestic squabble!
dialog: Or -- maybe it is. But the rest of us
dialog: have no interest in watching you two
dialog: go at it.
text: Walter calms himself, contrite.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I'm sorry for the emotions. I'm an
dialog: artist.
text: The Judge stares harshly.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Maybe.
text: IN THE BACK OF THE COURTROOM
text: Two SKETCH ARTISTS are busy, drawing the trial. One guy pokes
text: the other one, to show off his work.
text: His SKETCH is a typical courtroom drawing, except everyone is
text: drawn with big ridiculous Keane eyes.
text: The second guy GIGGLES. His buddy grins, then quickly erases
text: the silly eyes before anyone sees it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. COURTROOM - LATER
text: Margaret is back at the litigant's table, with her lawyer.
dialog: 105.
dialog: 
text: Walter stands, at his table. He shouts out.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I call as my witness... Mr. Walter
dialog: Stanley Keane!
text: A strange beat. The Jurors glance at each other.
text: Walter reacts, like he just heard his name. He strides
text: jauntily over to the witness stand.
text: The BAILIFF gives the Judge a weird look. Then, he pulls out
text: a Bible. Walter slaps down his hand.
speaker_heading: BAILIFF
dialog: Do you swear to the tell the truth,
dialog: the whole truth, and nothing but the
dialog: truth, so help you God?
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: YESSS!
text: Walter bounces out, a bit manic. He runs back to his lawyer
text: table, then spins to address the empty witness stand.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Mr. Keane. There has been a lot of
dialog: innuendo and contradictory testimony
dialog: about the genesis of the "big-eyed
dialog: waifs." Would you mind clarifying to
dialog: this court, once and for all, who
dialog: spawned these paintings?
text: Walter sprints back into the witness stand. He sits, then
text: reacts coyly, as if he's surprised.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Why -- I created the children.
text: Walter starts to stand again -- but the Judge SLAMS his bench.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: The choreography is not necessary.
dialog: Just sit down and testify.
text: Oh. Walter sits, then gathers his thoughts...
text: We slowly PUSH IN. He smiles, wistfully...
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I've had a wonderful life. I've been
text: an artist, a world traveler, a friend
dialog: of untold celebrities...
dialog: (he gets misty-eyed)
dialog: But when I look back at it all, when I
dialog: peer into my heart and define what
dialog: mattered...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: WALTER (CONT'D)
dialog: it is that I was dedicated to the
dialog: hungry children of the world.
speaker_heading: (GENUINE)
dialog: It all began in Berlin. After World
dialog: War II...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: LATER
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: ...the orphans were clutching the
text: barbed wire. Their bodies lacerated,
text: their fingers scrawny, their eyes big
dialog: and helpless. Imploring me, begging
dialog: me... "Do something!"
speaker_heading: (HUSHED)
dialog: "Do something."
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: LATER
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: ...and then Miss Joan Crawford walked
dialog: up to me...
speaker_heading: LATER
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: ...Kim Novak...
speaker_heading: LATER
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: ...Liberace...
speaker_heading: LATER
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: ...Wayne Newton...
speaker_heading: LATER
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: Miss Natalie Wood walked up and said,
dialog: "That is the greatest single painting
dialog: I have ever seen in my entire life."
text: The Judge is bored out of his mind.
speaker_heading: LATER
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I was born in a small town. My father
dialog: made upholstery for the automobile
scene_heading: INDUSTRY --
dialog: 107.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: You're done.
text: Walter stops, surprised.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: B-but, I'm not finished --
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Actually, you are!
dialog: (he blows his stack)
dialog: I cannot stomach one more wild tangent
dialog: or shaggy dog tale. You're not
dialog: testifying -- you're filibustering!
dialog: The Federal Courts are overburdened
dialog: enough, without your docket-clogging
dialog: nonsense.
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: We can stay here until we grow old and
dialog: die... but it's obvious that this case
dialog: boils down to your word versus Mrs.
dialog: Keane's word.
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (HOPEFUL)
dialog: So... mistrial?
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: NO! It's not a mistrial!! In my
dialog: opinion, there's only one way to clear
dialog: up this thicket. You are both going
dialog: to paint.
text: Walter gasps, stunned. All color drains from his face.
scene_heading: ANGLE - MARGARET
text: Her face lights up. She slowly breaks into a satisfied smile.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. COURTROOM - LATER
text: The doors SLAM open. The Bailiff leads in a crew of COURT
text: DEPUTIES, all carrying ART SUPPLIES: Easels, brushes, paint...
speaker_heading: BAILIFF
dialog: Awright, bring those easels down.
dialog: Careful, don't bump anything... watch
dialog: it with those paint cans, I got some
text: newspaper on the floor down front...
text: The Jury is fascinated.
text: Margaret watches, quite eager. In the gallery, Jane grins.
text: But Walter is horrified. Trying not to tremble.
dialog: 108.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DOWN FRONT
text: The Bailiff directs the deputies, setting up TWO EASELS, back
text: to back. On each easel is placed a small square canvas.
text: The Judge addresses the room.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Now, I'm not looking for a
dialog: masterpiece. I don't know much about
dialog: these things -- I'm a jurist, not an
dialog: art critic -- but, is one hour enough?
dialog: Margaret nods: Sure.
text: Shaking, Walter barely moves his head.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Okay then. You've both been provided
dialog: with identical supplies... so --
dialog: without any further business... Mrs.
dialog: Keane, Mr. Keane, the court is yours.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Margaret glances at Walter. What will he do?
text: Walter's face is grimly blank.
text: Margaret proceeds. Slowly, she pushes her chair from the
text: table and rises.
text: Walter doesn't move.
text: Margaret walks over to the closest EASEL, then sits. She ties
text: on a smock over her checkered dress.
speaker_heading: THE JURORS
text: crane their necks, intently curious.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
text: takes a pencil. She peeks over at Walter -- who's still glued
text: to his seat. His face tight, his expression queasy. Staring
text: off to some faraway place.
text: Margaret looks up at the CLOCK. 3:20.
text: Okay then. Totally calm, in a motion she's done so many
text: times, she focuses on the canvas and starts outlining a Waif.
text: Everybody watches. Effortlessly, she pencils the EYES. They
text: are enormous. The largest orbs she has ever done.
dialog: 109.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WALTER
text: looks ill. Wracked with uncertainty.
text: The Judge turns to him.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Mr. Keane?
speaker_heading: WALTER
speaker_heading: (FAINT)
dialog: I'm... setting the mood.
speaker_heading: (WHISPERING)
dialog: Getting the... muse to strike...
speaker_heading: JUDGE
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: Well, your muse has 58 minutes.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
text: fills in more detail. Ears... nose... then, little fingers
text: clutching a fence. The child is peeking over it, staring
dialog: right at us...
speaker_heading: WALTER
text: is melting down. In total crisis...
speaker_heading: THE CLOCK'S
text: second hand sweeps around. It's 3:34...
speaker_heading: THE JURORS
text: look from Margaret to Walter. Why isn't he moving??
speaker_heading: MARGARET
text: finishes penciling. She leans back, satisfied with the
text: composition. Then, she reaches for... the PAINT.
text: She unscrews a tube and squirts it on the palette. She rests
text: it on her lap and starts mixing a flesh tone...
speaker_heading: THE JUDGE
text: gapes at Walter, befuddled.
speaker_heading: WALTER
text: feels all eyes on him. He has to do something.
text: Hesitantly, visibly shaking, he rises from the table.
text: Margaret notices this.
dialog: 110.
dialog: 
text: Walter braces himself, trying to look confident, then takes a
text: step. Suddenly -- he SQUEALS.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: OW!
text: Walter contorts his face in AGONY.
text: He grabs his shoulder.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Mr. Keane! Are you all right?
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: No -- it's --
speaker_heading: (GRIMACING)
dialog: Ah shoot! My old shoulder injury just
dialog: flared up. I've got a bad muscle --
dialog: I've been taking medication for the
dialog: inflammation...
text: Walter shrugs pathetically --
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: I -- I don't think I'll be able to
dialog: paint today.
speaker_heading: THE JUDGE
text: is astonished.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: The courtroom reacts.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
text: peers at Walter, knowingly.
text: She's not surprised. This was his only way out.
text: A look between them -- and then she cocks a half-smile and
text: turns back to the canvas. She squirts out some white oil
text: paint, then begins painting the eyes.
speaker_heading: WALTER
text: sinks down in his chair, beaten. All life gone.
text: He stares at the emerging canvas, eyes wide, and we PUSH INTO
text: WALTER'S FACE. He is witnessing the end of his empire... the
dialog: destruction of everything that makes him who he is.
text: We push in TIGHTER... TIGHTER... until the screen fills with
text: his two eyes.
dialog: 111.
dialog: 
text: Big. Sad. And filling with tears.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FEDERAL COURTHOUSE - DAY
text: The doors open, and Margaret comes tumbling out, victorious.
dialog: She has WON!
text: She's surrounded by Jane, her friends, and a MOB OF REPORTERS.
text: They all SHOUT: "Mrs. Keane! Margaret! Congratulations!!"
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Thank you! Thank you so much.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #2
dialog: What are you going to call the
dialog: painting?
text: She smiles, clutching the finished Waif.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: "Exhibit 224."
text: They all ROAR with laughter. A Reporter does a stand-up:
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1
dialog: The jury found in favor of Margaret
dialog: Keane on all points. She won on
dialog: charges of defamation, emotional
dialog: distress, damaged reputation --
text: IN THE BACKGROUND
text: Walter drifts out, disheveled and lost. He stares hazily...
text: angrily at the crowd.
speaker_heading: WALTER
dialog: What a group of idiots... a quagmire
dialog: of incompetence...
speaker_heading: (RAMBLING)
dialog: This doesn't change a thing!
text: We slowly PULL AWAY, leaving him tiny in the shot. Forgotten.
scene_heading: BACK AT MARGARET
text: She hugs Jane. The Reporter jumps in.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #2
dialog: Margaret! Do you feel vindicated by
dialog: the high award?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Oh... it was never about the money.
dialog: And honestly -- I doubt Walter will
dialog: even pay.
dialog: 112.
dialog: 
text: The Reporter chuckles. Margaret turns serious.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I just wanted credit for what I had
dialog: done. The justice is... I got my art
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: (SOFT)
dialog: My prayers have been answered.
text: Margaret takes Jane's hand and starts to walk away.
text: Among the eager fans, a PORTLY LADY steps out, holding a BOOK.
text: She smiles nervously.
speaker_heading: PORTLY LADY
dialog: Margaret! Could I possibly have your
dialog: autograph?
text: Margaret looks down -- and realizes the book is Walter's
text: volume of "TOMORROW'S MASTERS"
text: Margaret stares at it in wonder, then quickly signs the cover.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - MARGARET
text: We hold. She slowly smiles in pride.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. MARGARET KEANE GALLERY - DAY
text: A brand-new gallery of Margaret's art. The walls are covered
text: with NEWLY-PAINTED Waifs and MDH's. We GLIDE through the
text: gallery... down the corridors of children and women...
text: These paintings of big-eyed children are different. They're
text: in magnificent colorful gardens, surrounded by joyful splashes
text: of red, orange, green...
speaker_heading: CLOSING CARDS:
dialog: "Walter never accepted defeat, insisting he was the true
text: artist for the rest of his life. He died in 2000, bitter and
dialog: penniless. He never produced another painting."
dialog: "Margaret found personal happiness and remarried. After many
dialog: years in Hawaii, she moved back to San Francisco and opened a
dialog: new gallery. She still paints everyday."
text: We move CLOSER to one child, into the face, until the eyes
text: fill the frame. And then... finally, we tilt down. Revealing
text: that the child is smiling.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
dialog: 
