speaker_heading: "BIG FISH"
dialog: Written by
dialog: John August
dialog: Based on the novel by
dialog: Daniel Wallace
dialog: Final Production Draft
dialog: 
text: This is a Southern story, full of lies and fabrications, but
dialog: truer for their inclusion.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
text: A RIVER.
text: We're underwater, watching a fat catfish swim along.
dialog: This is The Beast.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: There are some fish that cannot be
dialog: caught. It's not that they're faster
dialog: or stronger than other fish. They're
text: just touched by something extra.
dialog: Call it luck. Call it grace. One
dialog: such fish was The Beast.
text: The Beast's journey takes it past a dangling fish hook, baited
text: with worms. Past a tempting lure, sparkling in the sun. Past
text: a swiping bear claw. The Beast isn't worried.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: By the time I was born, he was already
dialog: a legend. He'd taken more hundred-
dialog: dollar lures than any fish in Alabama.
dialog: Some said that fish was the ghost of
dialog: Henry Walls, a thief who'd drowned
dialog: in that river 60 years before. Others
dialog: claimed he was a lesser dinosaur,
text: left over from the Cretaceous period.
scene_heading: INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (1973)
text: WILL BLOOM, AGE 3, listens wide-eyed as his father EDWARD
text: BLOOM, 40's and handsome, tells the story. In every gesture,
text: Edward is bigger than life, describing each detail with
dialog: absolute conviction.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I didn't put any stock into such
dialog: speculation or superstition. All I
dialog: knew was I'd been trying to catch
dialog: that fish since I was a boy no bigger
dialog: than you.
dialog: (closer)
dialog: And on the day you were born, that
dialog: was the day I finally caught him.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPFIRE - NIGHT (1977)
text: A few years later, and Will sits with the other INDIAN GUIDES
text: as Edward continues telling the story to the tribe.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Now, I'd tried everything on it:
text: worms, lures, peanut butter, peanut
dialog: butter-and-cheese. But on that day I
dialog: had a revelation: if that fish was
text: the ghost of a thief, the usual bait
dialog: wasn't going to work. I would have
dialog: to use something he truly desired.
text: Edward points to his wedding band, glinting in the firelight.
speaker_heading: LITTLE BRAVE
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Your finger?
text: Edward slips his ring off.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Gold.
text: While the other boys are rapt with attention, Will looks
text: bored. He's heard this story before.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I tied my ring to the strongest line
dialog: they made -- strong enough to hold
dialog: up a bridge, they said, if just for
dialog: a few minutes -- and I cast upriver.
scene_heading: INT. BLOOM FRONT HALL - NIGHT (1987)
text: Edward is chatting up Will's pretty DATE to the homecoming
text: dance. She is enjoying the story, but also the force of
text: Edward's charisma. He's hypnotizing.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (CONT'D)
text: The Beast jumped up and grabbed it
text: before the ring even hit the water.
dialog: And just as fast, he snapped clean
dialog: through that line.
text: WILL, now 17 with braces, is fuming and ready to leave. His
dialog: mother SANDRA -- from whom he gets his good looks and
text: practicality -- stands with him at the door.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You can see my predicament. My wedding
dialog: ring, the symbol of fidelity to my
dialog: wife, soon to be the mother of my
text: child, was now lost in the gut of an
text: uncatchable fish.
scene_heading: ON WILL AND SANDRA
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (low but insistent)
dialog: Make him stop.
text: His mother pats him sympathetically, then adjusts his tie.
speaker_heading: WILL'S DATE
dialog: What did you do?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I followed that fish up-river and
dialog: down-river for three days and three
dialog: nights, until I finally had him boxed
dialog: in.
text: Will regards his father with exasperated contempt.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: With these two hands, I reached in
dialog: and snatched that fish out of the
dialog: river. I looked him straight in the
dialog: eye. And I made a remarkable
dialog: discovery.
scene_heading: INT. TINY PARIS RESTAURANT (LA RUE 14°) - NIGHT (1998)
text: WILL, now 28, sits with his gorgeous bride JOSEPHINE. This
text: is their wedding reception, crowded with their friends and
text: family. They should be joyful, but Will is furious.
text: Edward has the floor, ostensibly for a toast. The room is
text: cozy and drunk.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: This fish, the Beast. The whole time
dialog: we were calling it a him, when in
dialog: fact it was a her. It was fat with
dialog: eggs, and was going to lay them any
dialog: day.
text: Over near the doorway, we spot Sandra, just returned from
text: the restrooms. She looks gorgeous. She couldn't be any happier
dialog: if this were her own wedding.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Now, I was in a situation. I could
dialog: gut that fish and get my ring back,
dialog: but doing so I would be killing the
dialog: smartest catfish in the Ashton River,
text: soon to be mother of a hundred others.
text: Will can't take any more. Josephine tries to hold him back,
text: but he gets up and leaves. Edward doesn't even notice.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Did I want to deprive my soon-to-be-
dialog: born son the chance to catch a fish
dialog: like this of his own? This lady fish
dialog: and I, well, we had the same destiny.
text: As he leaves, Will mutters in perfect unison with his father --
scene_heading: EDWARD AND WILL
dialog: We were part of the same equation.
text: Will reaches the door, where his mother intercepts him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Honey, it's still your night.
text: Will can't articulate his anger. He just leaves.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Now, you may well ask, since this
dialog: lady fish wasn't the ghost of a thief,
dialog: why did it strike so quick on gold
dialog: when nothing else would attract it?
text: (closer; he holds up
dialog: his ring)
dialog: That was the lesson I learned that
dialog: day, the day my son was born.
text: He focuses his words on Sandra. This story is -- and has
dialog: always been -- about her more than anyone.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Sometimes, the only way to catch an
text: uncatchable woman is to offer her a
dialog: wedding ring.
text: A LAUGH from the crowd.
text: Edward motions for Sandra to get up here with him. As she
dialog: crosses, we can see that thirty years of marriage has not
dialog: lessened their affection for each other.
text: As they kiss, Edward tweaks her chin a special little way.
text: The crowd APPLAUDS.
text: Edward toasts the happy couple. Josephine covers well for
text: her absent husband, a smile as warm as summer.
text: Edward downs his champagne in a gulp.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSIDE LA RUE 14° - NIGHT
text: We come into the middle of an argument on the sidewalk.
text: Occasional PASSERSBY take notice, especially as it gets more
text: heated. Both men are a little drunk.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What, a father's not allowed to talk
dialog: about his son?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (disbelieving)
dialog: I am a footnote in that story. I am
dialog: the context for your great adventure.
dialog: Which never happened! Incidentally!
dialog: You were selling novelty products in
dialog: Wichita the day I was born.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: Jesus Christ.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Friend of yours? Did you help him
dialog: out of a bind?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Come on, Will. Everyone likes that
dialog: story.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No Dad, they don't. I do not like
dialog: the story. Not anymore, not after a
dialog: thousand times. I know all the
dialog: punchlines, Dad. I can tell them as
dialog: well as you can.
dialog: (closer)
dialog: For one night, one night in your
dialog: entire life, the universe does not
text: revolve around Edward Bloom. It
dialog: revolves around me and my wife. How
dialog: can you not understand that?
text: A long beat, then...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (low)
dialog: Sorry to embarrass you.
text: Will won't let him get the last word.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You're embarrassing yourself, Dad.
dialog: You just don't see it.
dialog: ANGLE ON Edward. Fine. A hand to wave, enough of you.
text: He walks away.
text: ANGLE ON Will, still fuming with righteous anger. It's then
dialog: we FREEZE FRAME.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: After that night, I didn't speak to
dialog: my father again for three years.
scene_heading: INT. A.P. NEWSROOM (PARIS) - DAY
text: A typically busy day. On hold with the phone cradled under
text: an ear, Will sorts through a bundle of mail dropped on his
dialog: desk.
speaker_heading: WILL (ON PHONE)
dialog: (without pauses)
dialog: William Bloom with the Associated
dialog: Press if I could just...
text: He's put back on hold. Returning to the mail, he finds a
text: hand-addressed envelope. Rips it open.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: We communicated indirectly I guess.
dialog: In her letters and Christmas cards,
dialog: my mother would write for both of
dialog: them.
scene_heading: INT. BLOOM HOUSE KITCHEN - DAY
text: At the table, Sandra talks on the phone while Edward fixes a
dialog: sandwich.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: When I'd call, Mom would say that
text: Dad was out driving. Or swimming in
dialog: the pool.
text: Edward takes a seat, starting to eat his sandwich.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: True to form, we never talked about
dialog: our not talking.
scene_heading: INT. BLOOM HOUSE MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Sandra stands by the window, watching as...
scene_heading: EXT. BLOOM BACK YARD - NIGHT [CONTINUOUS]
text: Edward swims laps in the family pool. He's born to the water.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: The truth is, I didn't see anything
dialog: of myself in my father, and I don't
dialog: think he saw anything of himself in
dialog: me. We were like strangers who knew
dialog: each other very well.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY
text: Edward stares intently into the water, a lion in wait.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: In telling the story of my father's
dialog: life, it's impossible to separate
dialog: the fact from the fiction, the man
dialog: from the myth. The best I can do is
dialog: to tell it the way he told me.
text: We LOOK DOWN at the river, where Edward's reflection is caught
text: in the dark water. As the water ripples past, something
dialog: changes.
text: Sure enough, as we LOOK UP again, it's a younger EDWARD BLOOM,
text: 20's, staring into the water. He's not just handsome, not
text: just charming. It's as if all the forces of the natural world
dialog: had conspired to create him.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: It doesn't always make sense, and
dialog: most of it never happened.
text: Suddenly, this Edward thrusts both hands into the water,
dialog: grabbing hold of
text: THE BEAST.
text: He brings the catfish up to his face. Looks it right in the
text: eye. A beat, then the Beast spits out Edward's gold ring.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: But that's what kind of story this
dialog: is.
text: Smiling, Edward takes the ring, then throws the Beast back
text: into the water with a splash.
speaker_heading: TITLE OVER:
speaker_heading: BIG FISH
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
text: Young Dr. Bennett stands between the Wife's legs. She's
text: flustered and sweating, but the doctor has a comforting
dialog: bedside manner...
scene_heading: YOUNG DR. BENNETT
dialog: Now, Mrs. Bloom, I'll need you to
dialog: give me one good push. On three.
dialog: One...
text: Suddenly, we hear a POP as a slimy mass of human being rockets
text: into the doctor's unprepared hands. Bennett tries to hold
text: tight, but the infant is slippery like a fish. It shoots up
text: into air.
text: The NURSES and the Husband try to grab the baby, but no one
text: can hold it. As the newborn sails upward TOWARDS CAMERA, we
text: can see a GIGGLING SMILE on its face.
text: As it falls, the newborn knocks over a tray, which provides
text: it a ramp to slide right out of the room. Everyone races
dialog: after it.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY
text: Bursting through the doors --
scene_heading: YOUNG DR. BENNETT
dialog: Grab that baby!
text: A NURSE finally scoops up the slippery baby. Everyone lets
text: out a collective sigh of relief.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: My father's birth would set the pace
text: for his unlikely life. No longer
dialog: than most men's, but larger. And as
dialog: strange as his stories got, the
dialog: endings were always the most
dialog: surprising of all.
scene_heading: INT. HALF-DARK PARIS APARTMENT - (PRESENT) DAY
text: Over the sound of rain, a phone RINGS on a chair. By the
dialog: tone of the ring, we know we're not in the U.S. -- it has
text: that insistent European sound.
text: As it keeps RINGING, we look to see the apartment is mostly
text: empty, just a few half-unpacked boxes. A cradle is still in
text: its carton.
text: KEYS in the lock. LAUGHTER in the hallway. The door swings
text: open to reveal a drenched Will (29) carrying four sacks of
text: groceries, the bottoms collapsing from the rain. His wife
text: Josephine (28) pushes past him to get the phone.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Allo oui?
text: Will begins stripping out of his wet clothes, each layer
text: unleashing a new drizzle. He plays it up, trying to get a
text: reaction out of Josephine.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Yes, he's here.
text: She hands the phone to Will, concerned.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: It's your mother.
text: Half-stripped, Will takes the phone. This won't be good news.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Hi. Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
text: As Josephine takes off her rain coat, we see she is very,
text: very pregnant. She listens carefully to Will's side of the
text: conversation, trying to gauge how bad the news is.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: What does Dr. Bennett say? Okay. No,
dialog: sure, let me talk to him. I'll wait.
text: He covers the mouthpiece. Looks over to Josephine.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: It's bad.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: It's more than they thought. They're
dialog: going to stop chemo.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: You need to go.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Probably tonight.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I'm going with you.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You don't have to.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: (a simple fact)
dialog: I'm going with you.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FRANCE 747 - NIGHT
text: As the plane continues boarding, a STEWARDESS recites the
text: welcome spiel in French. Will has a window seat in coach.
text: Josephine sits beside him, putting on hand lotion.
text: Taking his hands, she rubs the excess into him. There's an
text: effortless intimacy between them. She can pinpoint what he's
text: feeling before he can.
scene_heading: INT. 747 / FLYING - NIGHT
text: Hours later, and the lights are dimmed. Most of the PASSENGERS
text: are asleep, including Josephine. Her head is propped against
text: Will's shoulder, her hands tucked under her belly.
text: Will watches her sleep, brushing back her hair. A beat, then
text: he notices a BORED BOY in the next row over.
text: Off the glow of the reading light, the boy is using his hands
text: to cast shadows on the seat back. The kid is pretty good,
text: making a convincing bird, a passable monkey, and finally a
dialog: dog.
text: We PUSH IN on the silhouettes.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (O.S., PRELAP)
dialog: So which one's it gonna be? The Monkey
dialog: in the Barn, the Dog in the Road?
dialog: Focusing on the final shadow, we...
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BLOOM HOUSE - NIGHT
text: ...come to find Edward making the shapes.
text: Will (6) sits in his pajamas on the floor next to him. The
text: endtable lamp lies between them, its shade off to cast big
text: shadows on the wall.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: The one about the witch.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Your mom says I can't tell you that
dialog: one anymore. You get nightmares.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I'm not scared.
text: Edward looks around for a beat, seeing if his wife is in
text: earshot. He then leans in, complicitous.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Neither was I. At first.
text: Will smiles, excited to hear the forbidden story.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: This all happened in the swamp outside
dialog: of Ashton. Kids weren't supposed to
dialog: go out in the swamp, on account of
text: the snakes and spiders and quicksand
dialog: that would swallow you up before you
dialog: could even scream. But there were
dialog: five of us out there that night: Me,
text: Ruthie, Wilbur Freely, and the Price
text: Brothers, Don and Zacky.
text: Edward holds up his hand, counting the names on his fingers.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Not a one of us knew what was in
dialog: store.
text: As his hand moves past the light, we
speaker_heading: COME TO:
text: A flashlight SWEEPS past. We are...
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD AT THE SWAMP EDGE - NIGHT
text: The night is WHIRRING and BREATHING, alive. The moon hangs
text: low, casting long shadows.
text: Five kids walk past in silhouette. Four have flashlights on.
text: The fifth keeps tripping, crashing into YOUNG EDWARD (10).
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Zacky, turn your flashlight on!
speaker_heading: ZACKY
dialog: I don't got any batteries!
text: Red-headed ZACKY PRICE is 10. His brother DON PRICE is 12,
dialog: and a lot bigger than the others.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: Then why'd you bring it?
speaker_heading: ZACKY
dialog: I don't want to be in the swamp with
text: a witch and no flashlight.
text: WILBUR FREELY, also 10, is the black asthmatic son of a
text: sharecropper. Redheaded RUTHIE MACKLIN, 8, is happy just to
dialog: be there.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Is it true she got a glass eye?
speaker_heading: WILBUR FREELY
dialog: I heard she got it from Gypsies.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What's a Gypsy?
speaker_heading: ZACKY
dialog: Your momma's a Gypsy.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: Your momma's a bitch.
speaker_heading: RUTHIE
dialog: You shouldn't swear. There's ladies
dialog: present.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: Shit.
speaker_heading: ZACKY
dialog: Damn.
speaker_heading: WILBUR FREELY
dialog: Screw.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Turn off your flashlights! She'll
dialog: see 'em.
text: MOVING UP behind the kids, we find ourselves at the gates
dialog: of...
scene_heading: EXT. A CREEPY OLD HOUSE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ADULT EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Now, it's common knowledge that most
dialog: towns of a certain size have a witch,
dialog: if only to eat misbehaving children
text: and the occasional puppy who wanders
dialog: into her yard. Witches use those
dialog: bones to cast spells and curses that
dialog: make the land infertile.
text: We PULL BACK, and BACK, revealing more of the Gothically
text: creepy house: its broken windows, strangling vines, and eerie
text: gargoyles half-buried in the dirt. Even bats are afraid to
text: fly over it.
text: In the moonlight, the house is especially sinister. Who knows
dialog: what is lurking in the shadows?
speaker_heading: ADULT EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Yet of the all the witches in Alabama,
dialog: there was one who was the most feared.
dialog: For she had one glass eye, which was
dialog: said to contain mystical powers.
text: We finally come to the kids, staring in through the gate.
speaker_heading: WILBUR FREELY
dialog: I hear if you look right at it, you
dialog: can see how you're gonna die.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: That's bull-s-h-i-t, that is. She's
dialog: not even a real witch.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: You're so sure, why don't you go in
dialog: and get that eye? I heard she keeps
text: it in a box on her nighttable.
text: Edward looks back at the spooky house.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: Or are you too scared?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll go in right now and get that
dialog: eye.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: Then do it.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Fine, I will.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: Fine, you do it.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Fine, I'm doing it.
text: He hands Zacky his flashlight, then starts climbing the gate.
speaker_heading: RUTHIE
dialog: Edward, don't!
speaker_heading: WILBUR FREELY
dialog: She'll make soap out of you!
dialog: (to Ruthie)
dialog: That's what she does, she makes soap
dialog: out of people.
text: Edward drops down on the far side of the gate. Truth be told,
text: Edward is scared, but he forges ahead anyway.
text: Wilbur looks to Ruthie, and they're in complete agreement.
text: They get the hell out of there. Zacky would run too, but Don
text: holds him by the collar.
scene_heading: EXT. APPROACHING THE HOUSE
text: Edward curves around the tall bushes that hide the front
text: door. Anything could jump out of them.
text: He steps on the porch. The boards SQUEAL and CREAK, but he
text: continues on. A cat SCREAMS OUT from a broken wicker rocker.
text: Catching his breath, Edward reaches the front door.
text: The doorknob is ancient brass, two projections that look
text: like horns. Yet Edward extends his hand, reaching closer and
text: closer before he finally
text: RINGS THE DOORBELL.
text: Impossibly fast, the door opens, revealing an OLD WOMAN with
text: a patch over her left eye. She looks like she's been dead
text: for years, but too stubborn to lie down.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (calm and
dialog: straightforward)
dialog: Ma'am, my name is Edward Bloom, and
dialog: there's some folks'd like to see
dialog: your eye.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK AT THE GATE - NIGHT
text: Zacky and Don Price wait for Edward, each moment more
text: convinced he's already dead. But suddenly, he's back at the
dialog: gate.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: You get the eye?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I brought it.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: (dubious)
dialog: Let's see it.
text: The Old Woman steps out of the shadows behind Edward, flipping
text: up her eye patch. When their flashlight beam hits her left
text: eye, it shines with a hellish glow.
text: We RUSH IN on Zacky, who is paralyzed by what he sees.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT PORCH OF HOUSE - DAY
text: An OLD MAN -- Zacky -- stands on a wobbly stepladder, changing
text: a lightbulb. Suddenly, the ladder gives way and he falls.
dialog: Dead.
scene_heading: EXT. AT THE GATE - NIGHT
dialog: We RUSH IN on Don Price.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FRATERNITY HOUSE BATHROOM - DAY
text: Twenty-year old Don Price falls face-forward on the tile,
text: face mushed in the grout. Very much dead.
scene_heading: EXT. AT THE GATE - NIGHT
text: Don and Zacky both tremble with fear. The latter has tears
text: in his eyes.
speaker_heading: ZACKY
dialog: I saw how I was gonna die. I was
dialog: old, and I fell.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: I wasn't old at all.
text: The brothers suddenly bolt. Still standing next to the Old
text: Woman, Edward smiles.
scene_heading: EXT. AT THE OLD WOMAN'S DOOR - NIGHT
text: Edward helps her back inside. He could leave now, but
text: curiosity gets the better of him.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I was thinking about death and all.
dialog: About seeing how you're gonna die.
text: The Old Woman turns to him slightly, still not facing him.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I mean, on one hand, if dying was
dialog: all you thought about, it could kind
dialog: of screw you up. But it could kind
dialog: of help you, couldn't it? Because
dialog: you'd know that everything else you
dialog: can survive.
text: The Old Woman smiles a little, a crooked grin of broken teeth.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I guess I'm saying, I'd like to know.
text: The Old Woman turns leaning her face right in front of his.
text: And on a silent count of one, two, three -- Edward looks
dialog: into The Eye.
text: This time we don't cut. Instead, we HOLD ON Edward as he
text: witnesses his death. He stares transfixed, perplexed and
text: amused. Whatever he sees, it's not as dire as the other boys.
text: His future has something strange in store.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Huh. That's how I go?
text: The Old Woman nods. Still a little overwhelmed, Edward turns
text: and leaves.
speaker_heading: ADULT EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: From that moment on, I no longer
dialog: feared death. And for that, I was as
dialog: good as immortal.
text: As Edward leaves, the door swings SHUT on its own.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT./EXT. BLOOM HOUSE - (PRESENT) DAY
text: The front door opens to reveal Will and Josephine on the
text: porch with their bags. REVERSE to Will's mother Sandra (53),
text: surprised and a little annoyed.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: How did you get here?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: We swam. The Atlantic, it's not that
dialog: big really.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Ruth McHibbon offered to pick you up
text: at the airport.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: We rented a car.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (simply)
dialog: You didn't need to do that. You just
dialog: didn't.
text: A beat. Starting over...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Hi, Mom.
text: He leans in and hugs her. She surrenders, squeezing her son
text: tight. Will and his mother are cut from the same cloth --
dialog: strong-willed but practical. They've always been close.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I'm so glad you're here.
text: That hug finished, Sandra pushes past her son to her daughter-
text: in-law. Seeing the size of her belly --
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You shouldn't have flown. But...
text: They hug.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: It's good to see you. You look
dialog: beautiful.
dialog: It's not flattery. It's the truth.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Thank you. I'll bet you need to --
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
text: Down the hall on the right. The door
dialog: sticks. You have to really pull it.
text: Josephine squeezes past, a smile to her husband -- be nice.
text: Will heads back to the rental car to retrieve luggage. Sandra
text: follows him.
text: Coming down the driveway, we get to see the house for the
text: first time: an older suburban home, three bedrooms, big for
text: the neighborhood, and nicely grown into the lot. KIDS are
text: playing on the street.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Is that Dr. Bennett's car?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: He's up with your father.
text: Heading back to the house...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: How is he?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: He's impossible. He won't eat. And
text: because he won't eat, he gets weaker.
dialog: And because he's weaker, he doesn't
dialog: want to eat.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: How much time does he have left?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You don't talk about those things.
dialog: Not yet.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Sandra is pouring iced tea for Will and Josephine.
text: DR. JULIUS BENNETT (85) enters from the foyer, still winded
text: from coming down the stairs. He was the town's first Black
dialog: physician. He's still the town's best physician.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Will.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Dr. Bennett. It's good to see you.
dialog: (they shake)
dialog: My wife, Josephine.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: A pleasure.
text: He judges her belly.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: You're seven months.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: (impressed)
dialog: To the day.
text: He leans close to her, whispering in her ear...
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: It's a boy.
text: She smiles, surprised but not doubting. Will looks over --
text: what did he say? Josephine shakes her head.
dialog: Back to the main subject...
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You don't think he looks any worse.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: No. I would say he's the same.
text: And in the silence that follows, a lot is said. It wasn't
text: the upbeat reply Sandra was hoping for.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Can I see him?
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Absolutely. Be good for you to talk
text: to him.
text: A moment of awkwardness -- everyone here knows they haven't
dialog: spoken in years.
text: Sandra hands Will a squat can of Ensure from the case on the
dialog: counter.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Get him to drink one of these. He
dialog: won't, but tell him he has to.
scene_heading: INT. FOYER - DAY
text: Coming out from the kitchen, Will slowly climbs the stairs.
text: They CREAK with every step.
text: The wall is filled with family photos, happier times. Most
text: of the pictures are of Will, starting when he was an infant
text: and ending at his wedding. As he climbs the stairs, we can
text: see him growing up with every step.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY
text: A crack of sunlight spills around the half-open door at the
text: end of the hallway. Will walks towards it, running a hand
text: along the wallpaper.
text: Almost at the door, he stops for a beat. Gets his breath.
text: Then goes inside.
scene_heading: INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY
text: Edward Bloom, 61, lies asleep on the bed. Although he's not
dialog: the vibrant man we've seen before, it's not as bad we feared.
text: The illness has been quick, and left him largely intact.
text: There are no I.V.'s, no monitors, nothing.
text: Coming up to the bed --
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Dad?
text: Edward cracks open an eye, a beat before he focuses. He tries
text: to say something, but no words come out.
text: He looks over at a pitcher on the nightstand. Will pours him
text: a glass of water, helping him hold it to his parched lips.
text: Finished, Edward sets down the glass by himself. A very long,
text: tense beat. Will almost speaks again to fill the silence.
dialog: Finally...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You --
dialog: (he points)
dialog: -- are in for a surprise.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Am I?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Having a kid changes everything. I
dialog: mean, there's the diapers and the
text: burping and the midnight feedings...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Did you do any of that?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: No, but I hear it's terrible. Then
dialog: you spend years trying to corrupt
dialog: and mislead this child, fill its
text: head with nonsense and still it turns
dialog: out perfectly fine.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You think I'm up for it?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You learned from the best.
text: Will doesn't rise to the challenge. A beat, then he remembers
text: the can of Ensure. Holds it up. Edward recoils.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Just drink half the can. I'll tell
dialog: her you drank the whole thing.
text: Everyone wins.
text: A beat, then Edward rolls his eyes. Fine. Will cracks open
text: the can, finding a straw on the nightstand.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: People needn't worry so much. It's
dialog: not my time yet. This isn't how I
dialog: go.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Really.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Truly. I saw it in The Eye.
speaker_heading: WILL
text: The Old Lady by the swamp.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: She was a witch.
speaker_heading: WILL
text: No, she was old and probably senile.
dialog: Maybe schizophrenic.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I saw my death in that eye. And this
dialog: is not how it happens.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: So how does it happen?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Surprise ending. Wouldn't want to
dialog: ruin it for you.
text: Edward slurps down as much of the Ensure as he can stand,
text: then pushes the can away. He swallows with difficulty.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: There was this panhandler who used
dialog: to stop me every morning when I came
dialog: out of this coffee shop near the
dialog: office.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: And every day I gave him a quarter.
dialog: Every day. Then I got sick and was
dialog: out for a couple of weeks. And when
dialog: I went back there, you know what he
dialog: said?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What did he say?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You owe me three-fifty.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Really.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: True story.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: When did you ever work in an office?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: There's a lot you don't know about
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You're right.
text: Edward gives a wry smile. He walked into that.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Your mother was worried we wouldn't
dialog: talk again. And look at us. We're
dialog: talking fine. We're storytellers,
dialog: both of us. I speak mine out, you
dialog: write yours down. Same thing.
text: Will won't commit to Edward's assessment.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Dad, I'm hoping we can talk about
dialog: some things while I'm here.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You mean, while I'm here.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I'd just like to know the true
dialog: versions of things. Events. Stories.
dialog: You.
text: Edward LAUGHS a little, which becomes a COUGH. The HACKING
text: escalates until another drink of water gets it under control.
dialog: It's not clear whether any of this was an act to keep from
text: talking.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Your mother hasn't been keeping up
dialog: the pool. If you wanted to you
dialog: could...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I will.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You know where the chemicals are?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I used to do it when you were gone,
dialog: remember? I used to do it a lot.
dialog: He didn't mean for that to sound so pointed. Taking the half-
text: empty Ensure, Will gets up to go. He's at the door when...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I was never much for being at home,
dialog: Will. It's too confining. And this,
dialog: here. Being stuck in bed. Dying is
dialog: the worst thing that ever happened
dialog: to me.
text: He smiles at his joke.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I thought you weren't dying.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I said this isn't how I go. The last
dialog: part is much more unusual. Trust me
dialog: on that.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY
text: Shutting the door behind himself, Will drinks the rest of
dialog: the Ensure himself. Edward was right. It tastes horrible.
text: Heading for the stairs, Will walks past an open door. As he
text: leaves frame, we STAY BEHIND to look inside...
scene_heading: INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - DAY [FLASHBACK]
text: ...where an eight-year old Will is propped up in bed, his
text: face covered with chicken pox and pink calamine lotion. He's
text: showing Edward how many bumps there are on his arm.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WILL
dialog: Dr. Bennett says I'm going to have
dialog: to be home for a week.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: That's nothing. I once had to stay
dialog: in bed for three years.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WILL
dialog: Did you have chicken pox?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I wish.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TINY CHURCH - DAY
text: Wearing a white shirt and tie, YOUNG EDWARD -- still about
text: 10 -- sings "Down to the River My Lord" along with the
text: CONGREGATION. His voice is high and thin, but he gives it
dialog: his all.
text: Suddenly, his voice CRACKS and DROPS a half-octave. And then
text: another. His friends Wilbur Freeley and Ruthie look over,
text: wondering what's wrong. Embarrassed, Edward just keeps
text: SINGING, trying to follow along with the baritone part.
text: He pulls at his collar. Then pulls again, his face getting
text: red. Starting to panic, he loosens his tie. He's starting to
text: undo the collar button when it POPS off by itself. Two more
text: buttons fly off. One hits a CHUBBY WOMAN in the neck.
speaker_heading: ON HIS SHOES
text: As we watch, Edward's pant cuffs rise inch by inch -- that's
text: how fast he's growing.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Truth is, no one quite knew what was
dialog: wrong. Most times, a person grows up
text: gradually. I found myself in a hurry.
scene_heading: INT. YOUNG EDWARD'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Young Edward lies in bed, his limbs connected to various
text: pulleys and levers to support his weight. He has a dozen
text: encyclopedias around him, and another dozen on the floor.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: My muscles couldn't keep up with my
dialog: bones, and my bones couldn't keep up
dialog: with my body's ambition. So I spent
dialog: the better part of three years
dialog: confined to my bed, with the World
dialog: Book Encyclopedia being my only means
dialog: of exploration. I had made it all
text: the way to the "G's," hoping to find
dialog: an answer to my gigantificationism,
dialog: when I uncovered an article about
dialog: the common goldfish.
scene_heading: INSERT: The encyclopedia article, complete with drawings.
scene_heading: YOUNG EDWARD
dialog: (reading)
text: "Kept in a small bowl, the goldfish
dialog: will remain small. With more space,
dialog: the fish can grow double, triple, or
dialog: quadruple its size."
text: Young Edward thinks this through.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: It occurred to me then, that perhaps
dialog: the reason for my growth was that I
dialog: was intended for larger things. After
dialog: all, a giant man can't have an
text: ordinary-sized life.
scene_heading: EXT. BASEBALL FIELD - DAY
text: The CRACK of a bat announces the game-winning home run. The
text: crowd CHEERS the swing, and especially the batter as he rounds
dialog: the bases.
dialog: Although we've seen him briefly before, this is our first
text: real exposure to GROWN-UP EDWARD, who we'll follow from
text: roughly the ages of 18 to 30.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: As soon as my bones had settled in
dialog: their adult configuration, I set
dialog: upon my plan to make a bigger place
dialog: for myself in Ashton.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL FIELDS - DAY
text: SINGLE SHOTS: Football hero Edward leads his team to victory.
text: On the sidelines, a PRETTY GIRL admits the name of her secret
dialog: love:
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Edward Bloom!
text: The other GIRLS SQUEAL in agreement. Don Price looks over,
text: glowers.
scene_heading: EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY
text: SINGLE SHOT: A lawnmower ROARS along the grass. We LOOK UP
text: to see who's pushing it, but it's not Edward. It's one of
text: his teenage EMPLOYEES.
text: Edward is back at the truck, which is painted to read, "Bloom
text: Landscaping." He has workers on every lawn.
text: He signs an autograph for an ADMIRING CUB SCOUT.
scene_heading: INT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY
text: Edward takes an impossible shot at the buzzer from the other
text: end of the court. Naturally, he makes it, winning the game.
text: As the crowd goes wild for Edward, Don Price is the only
text: teammate who doesn't mob him.
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN - DAY
text: Edward carries a dog out of a burning house.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE FAIR - DAY
text: Edward wins a blue ribbon for his invention, a machine
text: labelled "Perpetual Motion." He and the JUDGE pose for a
text: photograph. A FLASH.
text: Pissed, Don Price throws his crappy lima bean plants in the
dialog: trash.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH SCHOOL STAGE - DAY
text: A dashingly handsome Edward leads the CAST out for a curtain
text: call. He's the star of the show. Off to the side, we see Don
text: Price is the ass-end of a horse costume.
text: Edward soaks in his applause, smiling and gracious.
scene_heading: EXT. GRADUATION STAGE - DAY
text: Edward accepts his diploma. The PRINCIPAL hugs him tight.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: I was the biggest thing Ashton had
dialog: ever seen. Until one day, a stranger
dialog: arrived.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM - DAY
text: As two FARMERS shake their heads, we REVERSE to a show a
text: massive hole punched through the side of a barn. It's roughly
text: the shape of man, but no human could be that large.
scene_heading: EXT. SHEEP PEN - DAY
text: Two fat ewes look up, a shadow falling across them. They
text: BLEAT in panic as
scene_heading: TWO OVERSIZED HANDS
text: reach in and scoop them up. Their protests continue as they're
text: carried away, one under each arm. We still haven't seen the
dialog: full stranger.
scene_heading: EXT. COURT HOUSE - DAY
text: A MOB of about 50 have gathered, many of them with shotguns.
text: Amid the crowd we see Don Price.
speaker_heading: SHARECROPPER
dialog: He ate an entire cornfield!
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRL
dialog: He ate my dog!
scene_heading: HOT-BLOODED SHOTGUN TOTER
dialog: If you ain't gonna stop him Mayor,
dialog: we will!
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: I won't have mob violence in this
dialog: town. Now, has someone tried talking
dialog: to him?
speaker_heading: SOME FARMER
dialog: You can't reason with 'im!
speaker_heading: SHEPHARD
dialog: He's a monster!
text: Agreement from the crowd. And then...
speaker_heading: A VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: I'll do it.
text: Everyone turns to see who said that. The crowd parts to reveal
text: none other than Edward Bloom. Don Price glowers.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll talk to him. See if I can get
dialog: him to move on.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: Son, that creature could crush you
text: without trying.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Trust me, he'll have to try.
scene_heading: EXT. HILL OUTSIDE ASHTON - DAY
text: Edward climbs up the last bit of the steep hillside, reaching
text: the mouth of a cave. Outside, buzzards squabble over the
text: remains of the giant's feast: broken barrels, bones picked
dialog: clean.
text: In his most serious voice, Edward calls out:
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Hello!
text: There's no answer.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: My name is Edward Bloom! I want to
dialog: talk to you!
text: From deep in a cave, a thunderous voice:
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: GO AWAY!
text: The giant's voice has such force, it blows Edward's hair
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'm not going anywhere until you
dialog: show yourself.
text: A beat, then we hear a RUMBLE, like a train coming. Edward
text: braces himself, fists ready for a fight, if that's what it's
dialog: going to take.
text: As the RUMBLE gets louder, the ground starts to shake. Even
text: Edward starts to worry. Just how big is this guy?
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Armed with the foreknowledge of my
dialog: own death, I knew the giant couldn't
dialog: kill me. All the same, I preferred
dialog: to keep my bones unbroken.
text: Edward picks up a stone, ready to play David to Goliath.
text: Then suddenly, the giant bursts forth. Hunched over, he slams
text: into a stunned Edward, knocking him halfway down the hill.
text: KARL THE GIANT is bigger than any man you've ever seen. Not
text: just tall, but massive. He's completely feral, with a beard
text: to his elbow and skin scratched and blistered. What remains
text: of his clothes are ragged and muddy. God knows what's living
text: in his matted hair.
text: Karl leans over Edward, blocking the sun. Edward throws his
text: rock, but it just bounces off. The giant didn't even notice
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Why are you here?
text: Edward ponders the best response, settling on...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: So you can eat me. The town decided
dialog: to send a human sacrifice, and I
dialog: volunteered.
text: Karl's eyes narrow, confused. Edward stands up.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: My arms are a little stringy, but
dialog: there's some good eating on my legs.
dialog: I mean, I'd be tempted to eat them
dialog: myself.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So I guess, just, if you could get
dialog: it over with quick. Because I'm not
dialog: much for pain, really.
text: Edward closes his eyes, hands at his side, ready to be eaten.
text: Karl just stares at him, not sure what to do.
text: After a beat, Edward opens his eyes a tiny bit, just to see
text: what the giant is doing. Relieved to see he's not licking
dialog: his chops --
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Look, I can't go back. I'm a human
dialog: sacrifice. If I go back, everyone
dialog: will think I'm a coward. And I'd
dialog: rather be dinner than a coward.
text: Karl sits down with a BOOM, dejected.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Here, start with my hand. It'll be
text: an appetizer.
text: Reaching up, Edward shoves his hand into Karl's mouth. But
text: the giant spits it back out.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: I don't want to eat you. I don't
dialog: want to eat anybody. It's just I get
dialog: so hungry. I'm too big.
dialog: And that's the sad truth. Karl is less a monster than a freak --
text: a giant man, but in the end, just a man.
text: Edward takes a seat beside him.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Did you ever think maybe you're not
dialog: too big? Maybe this town's just too
dialog: small. I mean, look at it.
text: Circling behind them, we look down at Ashton -- a tiny town
text: in a tiny valley.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: Hardly two stories in the whole place.
dialog: Now I've heard in real cities, they've
dialog: got buildings so tall you can't even
dialog: see the tops of 'em.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Wouldn't lie to you. And they've got
dialog: all-you-can-eat buffets. You can eat
dialog: a lot, can't you?
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: I can.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: So why are you wasting your time in
dialog: a small town? You're a big man. You
dialog: should be in the big city.
text: Karl smiles, but then it fades. A certain sad suspicion --
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: You're just trying to get me to leave,
dialog: aren't you? That's why they sent you
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What's your name, Giant?
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Karl.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Mine's Edward. And truthfully, I do
dialog: want you to leave, Karl. But I want
dialog: to leave with you.
dialog: (closer)
dialog: You think this town is too small for
dialog: you, well, it's too small for a man
dialog: of my ambition. I can't see staying
dialog: here a day longer.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: You don't like it?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I love every square inch of it. But
text: I can feel the edges closing in on
dialog: me. A man's life can only grow to a
dialog: certain size in a place like this.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So what do you say? Join me?
text: Karl thinks a moment. Then --
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Okay.
text: They shake on it.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Now first, we gotta get you ready
dialog: for the city.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY
text: IN A SINGLE SHOT, Karl cuts his hair with hedge clippers,
text: while Edward cuts up a surplus army tent to make him a shirt.
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET OF ASHTON - DAY
text: Spirits buoyed by the high school MARCHING BAND, all the
text: good CITIZENS of Ashton are gathered to see off Edward and
dialog: Karl.
text: There's a few tears amid the familiar faces.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: (loudly, for the crowd)
dialog: Edward Bloom, first son of Ashton,
dialog: it's with a heavy heart we see you
dialog: go. But take with you this Key to
dialog: the City, and know that any time you
dialog: want to come back, all our doors are
dialog: open to you.
text: Edward ducks a bit so the Mayor can put the key around his
text: neck. The crowd CHEERS. And with that, Edward and Karl start
text: walking, waving as they go.
text: Only DON PRICE, smoking on the corner, isn't sad to see Edward
text: go. He crushes his cigarette under his heel. He wishes he
dialog: could crush Edward.
text: Many of the townfolk come onto the street to hug Edward or
text: shake his hand.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: That afternoon as I left Ashton,
dialog: everyone seemed to have advice.
scene_heading: VARIOUS TOWNFOLK
dialog: Find yourself a nice girl! Don't
dialog: trust anyone in Kentucky! Watch your
dialog: pride, Edward Bloom!
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: But there was one person whose counsel
dialog: I held above all others.
text: As the crowd parts, he finds himself face to face with
text: THE OLD WOMAN.
text: The ruckus slows and quiets, as if a strange spell has been
text: cast. She motions for Edward to lean down, so she can whisper
text: something to him. Although we're VERY CLOSE, we can't hear
text: her voice.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: She said that the biggest fish in
dialog: the river gets that way by never
dialog: being caught.
text: The advice only succeeds in confusing Edward.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (to the Old Woman)
dialog: Okay. Thanks.
text: Edward and Karl keep walking. The Old Woman shuffles off,
text: somehow knowing her advice will go unheeded.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: What did she say?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Beats me.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: We TILT UP from the road to reveal Edward and Karl walking
text: out of Ashton. Each wears a backpack with all his earthly
dialog: possessions.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: There were two roads out of Ashton,
dialog: a new one which was paved, and an
dialog: older one that wasn't. People didn't
dialog: use the old road anymore, and it had
dialog: developed the reputation of being
dialog: haunted.
text: Edward and Karl come to a bend, where the paved road veers
text: left and an overgrown dirt road runs straight. The old road
text: is blocked with signs and warnings of danger.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Since I had no intention of ever
dialog: returning to Ashton, this seemed as
dialog: good a time as any to find out what
dialog: lay down that old road.
text: Karl looks at the dirt road, wary.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: You know anyone's who's taken it?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: That poet, Norther Winslow did. He
dialog: was going to Paris, France. He must
dialog: have liked it, because no one ever
text: heard from him again.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Tell you what. You take the other
dialog: way and I'll cut through here. Meet
dialog: you on the far side.
dialog: A little paranoid...
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: You're not trying to run away?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Just to be sure, you can take my
dialog: pack.
text: Karl perks up, even though it means more for him to carry.
scene_heading: EXT. DIRT ROAD - DAY
text: The road is overgrown, but not altogether creepy. The sun is
text: still shining, and the birds still CHIRPING.
text: Spinning the Key to the City, Edward WHISTLES, because it's
text: a day meant for whistling.
scene_heading: EXT. FURTHER ALONG - ROUGH PATH
text: The road has narrowed to a rough path. Spikes of sunlight
text: break through the thick canopy, catching particles in the
text: air. Still, Edward WHISTLES.
text: Coming around a bend, his PITCH DROPS as he sees thick, thorny
text: vines growing across the path. He stops. For the first time,
text: he realizes the birds have stopped singing. The forest is
text: dead quiet.
text: He looks back the way he came. It's tempting to go back. It
text: would be easier to go back. But Edward presses on.
text: He carefully steps through the thorns. His trouser legs catch
text: on the barbs. We can hear the fabric TEAR.
speaker_heading: FURTHER ALONG
text: A scratched and sweaty Edward waves off various STINGING
text: BUGS flying at him, finally whipping off his hat to swat at
dialog: them.
text: Just then a CAWING crow swoops down and grabs the hat right
text: out of his hands.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You stupid sonofa...
text: He stops his swearing, but grabs a rock and throws it. The
text: stone ricochets off a tree and into a BEE'S NEST. The swarm
text: roars out.
text: Edward high-tails it, each step still precarious.
scene_heading: EXT. THE DARK FOREST - DAY [LATER]
text: Edward is bruised, battered and bee-stung.
text: A half-broken sign lies in the road. Edward picks it up.
dialog: Reads it:
speaker_heading: WARNING!
text: JUMPING SPIDERS!
text: Sure enough, up ahead he sees the path is overgrown with
text: thick cobwebs, heavy from the rain.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: There comes a point where a reasonable
dialog: man will swallow his pride and admit
dialog: he's made a terrible mistake. The
dialog: truth is, I was never a reasonable
dialog: man.
text: Edward tosses the sign and forges ahead, into the spiderwebs.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: And what I recalled of Sunday School
dialog: was that the more difficult something
dialog: became, the more rewarding it was in
dialog: the end.
scene_heading: EXT. CLEARING / THE ROAD - DAY
text: Edward emerges from the forest, brushing the last cobwebs
text: off and shaking the spiders from his shirt. One is stuck in
text: his sleeve, and he has to dance to get it out. Even then, he
text: still keeps twitching, convinced another one is left behind.
text: At his feet, the gravel road has returned, smooth and dusty
dialog: and comforting.
text: Ahead lies a tiny one-street town -- smaller even than Ashton --
text: with powerlines emerging from the woods to feed it. Dangling
text: from the line above he sees two dozen pairs of shoes, their
text: laces tied together.
text: He passes a sign that reads "Welcome To Spectre!"
scene_heading: EXT. THE TOWN OF SPECTRE - DAY
text: It's a main street with stores on each side: Cole's Pharmacy,
dialog: Talbot's Five and Dime, Al's Country Store. Everything is
text: old, but this isn't a ghost town. In fact, there's a group
text: of about 20 CITIZENS spilling out to see Edward approach.
text: Most are smiling. There are even a few tears of joy.
dialog: What's more, all of these people are barefoot.
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE
dialog: Friend!
text: A forty-year old man named BEAMEN comes out of the seed store
text: to greet Edward. Friendly but a little drunk, he's the closest
text: thing the town has to a mayor. He's carrying a clipboard.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: Welcome to ya. What's your name?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Edward Bloom.
text: Beamen checks the clipboard. Not finding the name, he flips
text: forward a few pages. Still looking...
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: Bloom like a flower?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: Oh. Here! Right here. Edward Bloom.
dialog: We weren't expecting you yet.
dialog: Still confused...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You were expecting me?
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: Not yet.
text: A helpful woman named MILDRED chimes in:
speaker_heading: MILDRED
dialog: You must have taken a shortcut.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I did. It nearly killed me.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: Mmm-hmm. Life'll do that to you. And
dialog: truthfully, the long way is easier,
dialog: but it's longer.
speaker_heading: MILDRED
text: Much longer.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: And you're here now, and that's what
dialog: matters.
text: Beamen's daughter JENNY (8) hides behind her father, peering
text: around to look at the handsome stranger.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What is this place?
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: The town of Spectre. Best kept secret
dialog: in Alabama. Says here you're from
dialog: Ashton, right? Last person we had
dialog: from Ashton was Norther Winslow.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: The poet? What ever happened to him?
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: He's still here. Let me buy you a
dialog: drink. I'll tell you all about it.
dialog: Hell, I'll have him tell you.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: No. I've gotta meet somebody. I'm
text: already running late.
dialog: He didn't mean it as a joke, but for some reason, everyone's
text: laughing.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: Son, I already told you. You're early.
scene_heading: INT. BEAMEN'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Sitting at the kitchen table, Edward takes a second slice of
text: apple pie. He and Beamen are joined by NORTHER WINSLOW (30),
text: who fancies himself a cultured artist, though he's never
dialog: left the state.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: Now tell me if that isn't the best
dialog: pie you ever ate.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: It truly is.
scene_heading: UNDER THE TABLE
text: Young Jenny is stealthily untying the laces on Edward's shoes.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: Everything here tastes better. Even
dialog: the water is sweet. Never gets too
text: hot, too cold, too humid. At night
text: the wind goes through the trees and
dialog: you'd swear there was a whole symphony
dialog: out there, playing just for you.
text: Suddenly, Jenny YANKS OFF Edward's shoes. She races for the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Hey!
text: He chases after her.
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN / MAIN STREET - DAY
text: As she runs, Jenny ties Edward's laces together. Reaching
text: the edge of town, she tosses the shoes up and around the
text: power line -- a perfect throw. There's no way he's ever
dialog: getting them down.
text: The gathered citizens of Spectre CHEER for Edward, who is
text: confused and overwhelmed. The women hug him. Men shake his
dialog: hand.
text: Still focused on his shoes...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Wait! I need those!
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
text: There is no softer ground than town.
speaker_heading: MILDRED
dialog: That rhymes!
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: He is our poet laureate.
text: The townsfolk continue to congratulate Edward...
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Sometimes in a dream, you'll visit
text: places that seem instantly familiar,
dialog: filled with friends you've never
dialog: met.
scene_heading: EXT. UNDER A TREE - DUSK
text: Edward sits with Norther Winslow. The fireflies are out.
text: Thousands of them.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: A man might travel his entire life
dialog: and never find a place so inviting.
dialog: My journey had scarcely begun, and I
dialog: had arrived.
text: Norther hands him his noteboook.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: I've been working on this poem for
dialog: 12 years.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Really.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: There's a lot of expectation. I don't
dialog: want to disappoint my fans.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: It's only three lines long.
text: Norther grabs his notebook back.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: This is why you don't show work in
dialog: progress.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Norther, do you ever regret not making
dialog: it to Paris?
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: I can't imagine any place better
dialog: than here.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You're a poet. You oughta be able
dialog: to. And maybe if you'd seen more,
dialog: you could.
text: Norther doesn't answer. Just goes back to his notebook.
scene_heading: EXT. BY THE RIVER - NIGHT
text: By the light of the full moon, Edward soaks his feet in the
text: water, trying to make sense of it all. The Key to the City
text: dangles around his neck.
text: He stares at himself in the reflection. He smiles.
text: It's then that a WOMAN emerges at the far side of the river.
dialog: No telling where she came from -- she must have been swimming
text: underwater. We never see her face.
text: She stands in the river with her bare back to Edward,
text: squeezing the water out of her golden hair, oblivious to his
text: presence. Edward is breathless. It's the first woman he's
text: seen in her natural state, and he doesn't dare move lest he
text: frighten her away.
text: Then he sees the snake.
text: It's a cottonmouth, has to be. It leaves a break in the water,
text: its small reptilian head aiming for her flesh.
text: There's no decision to be made. On pure instinct, Edward
text: dives in. He swims as hard as can,
text: GRABBING THE SNAKE
text: just as it's about to strike.
text: The woman dives back underwater, understandably terrified
text: that a man is coming at her.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: No, it's okay! I got it. I got the
dialog: snake.
text: As the splashing subsides, Edward looks at what he holds in
text: his hands. Which isn't a snake at all, but rather a common
dialog: stick. And a non-threatening one at that.
text: While Edward ponders his mistake, he looks around to discover
text: that the Girl in the River is gone. He never even saw her
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Wait! I'm sorry. Hello?!
text: Edward keeps expecting her to surface, somewhere, but she
text: never does. He stands alone in the river, wondering what
text: tricks his eyes are playing on him.
scene_heading: EXT. BY THE RIVER - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: A GIRL'S VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: There's leeches in there!
text: Edward looks to the bank, where young Jenny Hill is watching
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Did you see that woman?
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: What did she look like?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Well, she... uh...
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Was she nekkid?
dialog: Embarrassed to admit it...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: It's not a woman, it's a fish. No
dialog: one ever catches her.
text: Given the day he's had so far, Edward isn't inclined to follow
text: up on the issue. He starts to wade back to the bank.
speaker_heading: JENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: Fish looks diff'rent to diff'rent
dialog: people. My daddy said it looked like
dialog: the coon dog he had when he was kid,
text: back from the dead.
text: Edward climbs up onto the shore, completely drenched. He
text: pulls up his pant legs to reveal three shiny leeches clinging
text: to his skin.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Shoot.
text: He starts to work pulling them off.
scene_heading: EXT. PATH BACK TO TOWN - NIGHT
text: Edward and Jenny walk back.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: How old are you?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Eighteen.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I'm eight. That means when I'm
dialog: eighteen, you'll be 28. And when I'm
dialog: 28, you'll only be 38.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (a little wary)
dialog: You're pretty good at arithmetic.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: And when I'm 38, you'll be 48. And
dialog: that's not much difference at all.
dialog: Eager to get off this subject...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Sure is a lot now, though, huh?
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT
text: As Edward and Jenny approach Main Street, they find "downtown"
text: has been transformed. Lanterns and streamers hang on cables
text: across the street, and a small stage has been built at one
dialog: end to hold FIDDLERS.
text: The whole town is there in celebration of its newest citizen,
text: Edward Bloom. Before he can protest, two WOMEN have grabbed
text: him by the arms, pulling him in to dance with them.
text: The resulting dance number seems both choreographed and
text: complete chaos. From FARMER to BAKER'S WIFE, everyone wants
text: to dance with Edward, who finds himself tossed around like a
text: stick caught in a whirlpool. Still, he's having a blast.
text: Jenny grabs both his hands, and they spin wildly.
text: Beamen plucks his LAUGHING daughter away to dance with her.
text: Then Mildred cuts in to dance with Edward. It's hard to hear
text: over the MUSIC.
speaker_heading: MILDRED
dialog: Jenny thinks you're quite a catch.
dialog: We all do.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (not hearing)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MILDRED
dialog: I said you're quite a catch!
text: Edward stops dancing. A beat, then he heads for the edge of
text: the crowd. Beamen is there, with Jenny on his shoulders.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I have to leave. Tonight.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: This town is everything a man could
dialog: ask for. And if I were to end up
dialog: here, I'd consider myself lucky. But
dialog: the fact is, I'm not ready to end up
dialog: anywhere.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: No one's ever left.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: How are you gonna make it without
dialog: your shoes?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I suspect it will hurt a lot.
text: And with that, Edward walks down Main Street. The townspeople
text: stop dancing, disbelieving, some shaking their heads.
dialog: Poor Edward Bloom's gone crazy.
speaker_heading: BEAMEN
dialog: (calling after him)
dialog: You won't find a better place!
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I don't expect to.
text: Jenny runs to him. She'd tackle him if she could.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Promise me you'll come back.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I promise. Someday. When I'm really
dialog: supposed to.
text: It's not good enough, but it will have to do. Edward keeps
dialog: walking.
scene_heading: EXT. THE DARK FOREST - NIGHT
text: VARIOUS SHOTS: Edward negotiates the thorns in his bare feet.
text: It's horrible. Almost unendurable.
dialog: And then it gets worse.
text: The trees ahead are moving. At first, it just seems to be
text: the wind blowing the branches, but as we hear the wood
text: CRACKING and GROANING, there's no mistaking it: they're trying
text: to block him.
text: Snake-like WHITE ROOTS shoot out of the ground, grabbing for
text: his ankles. He leaps up, kicking off one tree trunk to grab
text: another one's branches. He swings off, lands and rolls. Now
text: all the trees are moving to block him, their dark shapes
text: towering over him in the flashes of LIGHTNING.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: As difficult as it was to reach
dialog: Spectre, I was fated to get there
dialog: eventually. After all, no man can
text: avoid reaching the end of his life.
text: As he ducks under branches, the chain holding the Key to the
text: City gets caught. He's almost strangled, but the chain finally
text: breaks. The silver key disappears into the mud.
text: Scrambling forward, he looks for a way out. But the trees
text: have encircled him, their spiky crowns bending down to crush
dialog: him.
text: He SCREAMS up at the night, until his breath is gone.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: And then I realized, this wasn't the
dialog: end of my life.
text: With a sudden calm...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (aloud)
dialog: This isn't how I die.
text: Another lightning FLASH, and suddenly the trees are back
text: where they've always been. Edward is lying shoeless and torn
text: in a muddy puddle, staring up at the rain. And LAUGHING.
scene_heading: EXT. THE ROAD - DAY
text: His bare foot steps onto asphalt.
speaker_heading: A DEEP VOICE
dialog: Friend!
text: Edward turns to see
speaker_heading: KARL
text: to his right, coming down the larger, paved road.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: What happened to your shoes?
text: Edward looks down at his muddy, bloody feet.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: They got ahead of me.
text: With that, the men start walking down the larger road.
speaker_heading: CROSSFADE TO:
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Edward and Will sit at opposite ends of the table, with Sandra
text: and Josephine in the middle. Although Edward has a small
text: plate of food in front of him, he hasn't touched it. He's
text: exhausted from the trip downstairs, but determined to maintain
text: the family dinner ritual.
text: The other three eat awkwardly, each CLINK and SCRAPE of a
text: knife or fork resonating. Will finally breaks the silence.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I don't know if you've seen it, but
dialog: Josephine has some photos in the
dialog: most recent Newsweek.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Really! That's wonderful.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I spent a week in Morocco for the
dialog: story. It was incredible.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: We'll have to pick up a copy.
text: A beat. As Will scoops out another serving of potatoes, Edward
dialog: suddenly speaks:
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I don't know if you're aware of this,
dialog: Josephine, but African parrots, in
dialog: their native home of the Congo --
dialog: they speak only French.
text: All three stop to listen.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: (amused)
dialog: Really.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You're lucky to get four words out
dialog: of them in English. But if you were
dialog: to walk through the jungle, you'd
dialog: hear them speaking the most elaborate
dialog: French. Those parrots talk about
dialog: everything: politics, movies, fashion --
dialog: everything but religion.
dialog: Taking the bait...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Why not religion, Dad?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: It's rude to talk about religion.
dialog: You never know who you're going to
dialog: offend.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Josephine actually went to the Congo
dialog: last year.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Oh, so you know.
scene_heading: INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT
text: Will shakes a shopping cart free from the pile-up while his
text: mother checks her list.
scene_heading: AT THE PRODUCE SECTION
text: Sandra starts to bag string beans.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Mom, would you say you understand
dialog: Dad?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Of course.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What I mean is, do you really know
dialog: what's going on in his head?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: How is that possible? I mean, you
text: try to ask him a question and suddenly
dialog: it's another one of his stories.
dialog: (decidedly)
dialog: You can't honestly say you know him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Yes, Will, I do. And don't presume
dialog: things you don't know.
text: She's more amused than annoyed, but Will is entering dangerous
dialog: territory.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Would you say you understand
dialog: Josephine?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes. But that's a different...
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: No it's not. It's exactly the same.
dialog: Your father and I met, we dated, and
dialog: we married -- we chose each other --
dialog: because we understood each other on
dialog: some fundamental level. Just the
dialog: same as you two.
text: She moves on to the carrots.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Josephine and I have a lot in common.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Yes, you both think William Bloom is
dialog: a very smart man.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: The problem is, you only see me as
dialog: your mother, and not as someone's
dialog: wife. And I've been his wife longer
dialog: than I've been your mother. You can't
dialog: discount that.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: True. But I've known him my whole
dialog: life, and I don't feel like I know
dialog: him at all. Or ever will.
text: With a look, Sandra acknowledges the stakes.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I know it's not easy. Just remember,
dialog: he didn't choose to be your father
dialog: and you didn't choose to be his son.
dialog: You just ended up together. You could
text: pick numbers out of a dark bag and
dialog: it'd be just the same. If you ask
dialog: me, it's a wonder parents and children
dialog: can stand each other at all.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: But I understand you, Mom. I always
dialog: have.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Well, clearly you don't. But I'm not
dialog: the mystery you're trying to solve
dialog: right now.
scene_heading: INT. AT THE CHECKOUT - NIGHT
text: Reaching the CASHIER, Sandra hands over her coupons. Will is
text: approaching with a Newsweek magazine.
text: Two checkstands over, an ATTRACTIVE BLONDE WOMAN in her 50's
dialog: is getting her change. Though she's Sandra's generation, she
text: carries herself like a much younger woman, with blue jeans
dialog: and sneakers.
text: She accidentally makes eye contact with Will as he passes.
text: We HOLD ON the woman, who tracks Will as he reaches Sandra.
text: It's hard to read her reaction: does she recognize him, or
dialog: just find him attractive?
text: Will notices the gaze. The woman turns away.
text: Will racks his brain -- does he know this woman?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Before I forget, your father has
dialog: papers in the basement I'd like you
dialog: to go through. I wouldn't know what's
dialog: important.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (distracted)
dialog: Mom, do you know who that is? Blonde
dialog: hair.
text: Sandra looks. After a beat, the Blonde Woman turns again,
text: semi-casually. Noticing that both Will and Sandra are looking,
text: she smiles a little before taking her cart to leave.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (no idea)
dialog: Was she one of your teachers?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No. But it's weird. She seemed to
dialog: recognize me.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (to the cashier)
dialog: Do you know who that is?
text: The Cashier turns to look. He can only get a profile as the
text: woman leaves.
speaker_heading: CASHIER
dialog: Never seen her before. Pretty, though.
scene_heading: INT. GUEST BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: A portable fan quietly WHIRRS in the corner. Turned low, the
text: RADIO on the nightstand is playing a call-in AM sports show,
text: just a wash of background chatter. Edward lies asleep on his
dialog: back.
text: At the window, Josephine quietly lowers the shade. She reaches
text: over Edward to switch off the radio. He stirs from the silence --
text: he wasn't fully asleep -- and sees Josephine stretched over
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (playfully lecherous)
dialog: Hello.
text: She smiles.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Hi. How are you feeling?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I was dreaming.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: What were you dreaming about?
text: He tries to recollect, but it's already gone. Josephine
text: motions, is it okay for her to sit on the bed? He nods.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I don't usually remember unless
dialog: they're especially portentous. You
dialog: know what that word means, portentous?
text: She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Means when you dream about something
dialog: that's going to happen.
dialog: (beat, gathering)
dialog: Like one night, I had a dream where
dialog: this crow came and told me, "Your
dialog: Aunt is going to die." I was so scared
dialog: I woke up my parents. They told me
dialog: it was just a dream, to go back to
dialog: bed. But the next morning, my Aunt
dialog: Stacy was dead.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: That's terrible.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Terrible for her, but think about
dialog: me, young boy with that kind of power.
dialog: Wasn't three weeks later that the
text: crow came back to me in a dream and
dialog: said, "Your Grampa is going to die."
dialog: Well, I ran right back to my parents.
dialog: My father said, no, Gramps is fine,
text: but I could see there was trepidation.
dialog: And true enough, that next morning
dialog: my Grampa was dead.
text: He sits up a bit in bed, his strength returning.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: For the next couple weeks, I didn't
dialog: have another dream. Until one night
dialog: the crow came back and said, "Your
dialog: Daddy is going to die."
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Well, I didn't know what to do. But
dialog: finally I told my father. And he
dialog: said not to worry, but I could tell
dialog: he was rattled. That next day, he
dialog: wasn't himself, always looking around,
text: waiting for something to drop on his
dialog: head. Because the crow didn't tell
dialog: how it was going to happen, just
dialog: those words: your Daddy is going to
dialog: die. Well, he went into town early
dialog: and was gone for a long time. And
dialog: when he finally came back, he looked
text: terrible, like he was waiting for
dialog: the axe to fall all day. He said to
dialog: my mother, "Good God. I just had the
dialog: worst day of my life."
dialog: (beat)
dialog: "You think you've had a bad day,"
dialog: she said. "This morning the milkman
dialog: dropped dead on the porch!" Josephine
text: smiles, a half-laugh, which gets him
text: smiling too.
text: A long beat. Then, deadpan...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Because see, my mother was banging
text: the milkman.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: No, I understand.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: He was slipping her a little extra
dialog: cream.
text: She nods, a bit more of a laugh.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: He was filling her basket. He was
text: making deliveries around back.
text: As Edward continues, she can't help but laugh harder,
text: especially as the metaphors get more vulgar.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: He was buttering her rolls. Pumping
text: her churn. Splashing milk in her
dialog: box.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Stop.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: They were squeezing the cheese.
text: Clanking the bottles. Licking the
dialog: popsicle.
text: She's starting to cry from laughing.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: Cracking the eggs and making an
dialog: omelet.
text: With that, he stops. She regains her composure.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: Spooning the sherbet.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Can I take your picture?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You don't need a picture. Just look
text: up handsome in the dictionary.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Please?
text: He rolls his eyes, why not.
text: Josephine leaves, heading down the hall to get her camera.
text: We STAY WITH Edward in bed.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE (O.S.)
dialog: I have photos from the wedding to
dialog: show you. There's a great one of you
dialog: and my father. I had an extra print
dialog: made.
text: Edward grimaces, a flash of pain. Around others, he's hiding
text: how much it hurts, but alone we can see how bad it is.
text: He controls his breathing, trying to push through it.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I want to see pictures of your
dialog: wedding. I've never seen any.
text: She returns with her camera. Edward smiles, doing a good job
text: masking the pain.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: That's because we didn't have a
dialog: wedding. Your mother-in-law was never
dialog: supposed to marry me. She was engaged
dialog: to somebody else.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: (loading film)
dialog: I never knew.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Will never told you that?
dialog: (she shakes her head)
dialog: Probably just as well. He would have
dialog: told it all wrong anyway. All the
dialog: facts and none of the flavor.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Oh, so this is a tall tale?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Well, it's not a short one.
text: A devilish smile. Pushing past Edward, we settle on the
text: whirling fan.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: SPINNING PINWHEEL
text: held by a LITTLE BOY. He's slumped over his FATHER's shoulder,
text: being carried towards a big-top tent. We are...
scene_heading: EXT. OLYMPIA CIRCUS - NIGHT
text: ...where the second-rate carnival is parked for the moment
text: in an Alabama field. To the left, we spot Edward, 20-ish,
text: halfway through a bag of peanuts. He's still carrying the
dialog: backpack we saw earlier, and scratched up from his trip
dialog: through Spectre.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: I had just left Ashton, and was on
dialog: my way to discover my destiny. Not
dialog: knowing what that would be exactly,
dialog: I explored every opportunity that
dialog: presented itself.
text: Joining the crowd, he heads into the big-top.
scene_heading: INT. BIG TOP - NIGHT
text: A troupe of STILT-WALKING FIREBREATHERS finishes their act
text: to tremendous APPLAUSE.
text: As the performers clear away, the circus' owner-and-ringmaster
text: AMOS CALLOWAY (50) approaches the stands. He may only be
text: four feet tall, but Amos has a titanic presence.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Ladies and Gentlemen, you may think
dialog: you've seen the unusual. You may
dialog: think you've seen the bizarre. But
dialog: I've travelled to the five corners
dialog: of the world, and let me tell you,
dialog: I've never seen anything like this.
text: From behind Amos, CARNIES start rolling a massive ball towards
dialog: the crowd.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: When I found this man, he was picking
dialog: oranges in Florida. His fellow workers
dialog: called him El Penumbra -- The Shadow --
dialog: because when you were working beside
text: him, he blocked out the daylight. He
dialog: could take a whole tree in his hands
dialog: and shake off the fruit. I had to
dialog: pay his crew boss $10,000 just so I
dialog: could take him with me.
text: Amos comes up to a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN in the first row, a
text: quieter moment.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Not to alarm you, Ma'am. But if this
dialog: man wanted to, he could crush your
text: head between his toes.
dialog: (she trembles)
dialog: But he won't.
dialog: (a long beat)
dialog: He's not going to hurt her, folks,
dialog: because he's our own Gentle Giant.
dialog: Ladies and Gentlemen, I give you
dialog: Colossus!
text: The carnies back away from the ball as a deep DRUM ROLL
text: begins. A moment, then the ball starts to bulge from inside.
text: A foot suddenly bursts out from within. GASPS from the crowd.
text: That foot is massive. In the stands, Edward looks closer.
text: Intrigued.
text: As the drum beat intensifies, a second foot breaks out.
text: Followed by hands. Shoulders. Finally, the head. This is
speaker_heading: COLOSSUS.
text: From a very LOW ANGLE, we look up to see just how massive he
text: is. He seems to fill the Heavens. With his shaved head and
text: giant club, he seems more ogre than man.
text: In the bandstands, a YOUNG BOY's jaw drops in awe. Colossus
text: walks down the row, letting the crowd get a better look at
text: him. Some reach out to touch him, disbelieving. A tight
text: spotlight follows him, revealing faces in the crowd.
text: Colossus passes Edward, who seems unimpressed. He leans with
text: the spotlight, WHISTLING to get the big man's attention.
text: He points to the edge of the stands, where his friend is
text: sitting on the dirt --
scene_heading: KARL THE GIANT
text: stands up, so big the spotlight has to widen just to hold
text: him. He's a good foot taller than Colossus. There's a GASP
text: from the crowd, along with nervous anticipation -- what will
dialog: happen next?
text: ANGLE ON Amos, stunned, megaphone dangling.
text: ANGLE ON Colossus, realizing the gig is up. With a resigned
text: shrug, he rests his club on his shoulder and walks away into
text: the shadows.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BIG-TOP - NIGHT / LATER
text: As the stands empty, Edward and Karl talk to Amos.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: What's his name? Does he talk? It's
dialog: not important.
speaker_heading: KARL
dialog: Karl.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Tell me Karl, have you ever heard of
dialog: the term "involuntary servitude?"
text: Karl shakes his head.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: "Unconscionable contract?"
dialog: Nope.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Great, great. That's fantastic.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: It was on that night Karl met his
dialog: destiny. And I met mine. Almost.
scene_heading: INT. BIG TOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS
text: As Amos pulls Karl aside to give him the hard sell, Edward
text: notices a BEAUTIFUL YOUNG WOMAN (16) leaving with her family.
text: She's wearing a blue dress and hat. For no good reason, she
text: looks back at Edward.
text: The two make eye contact. And as they do, all motion FREEZES.
text: A fiery baton remains mid-twirl, flames locked in place. A
text: spilled box of popcorn hangs in mid-air, each kernel like a
text: snowflake. Even the elephant is mid-poop.
text: Only Edward is free to move, winding his way between the
text: frozen bodies, ducking underneath arms to get closer and
dialog: closer to this woman.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: They say when you meet the love of
dialog: your life, time stops. And that's
dialog: true. What they don't tell you, is
text: that once time starts again, it moves
text: extra fast to catch up.
text: Suddenly, everything RUSHES. The crowd becomes a blur, and
text: the young woman is lost in its wake. Now it's Edward who's
text: frozen, helpless in time.
scene_heading: EXT. DIRT PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: Edward checks in windows as cars pull out, searching for his
text: fated love. Not finding her, he becomes more frantic, running
text: down the rows.
speaker_heading: CROSSFADE TO:
speaker_heading: THE EMPTY LOT
text: Colossus is thumbing for a ride. The last pickup truck stops
text: and lets him climb in back.
text: As the truck pulls out, it passes a dejected Edward. He'll
dialog: never find that girl, the love of his life.
scene_heading: INT. BIG-TOP - NIGHT
text: Amos leans over so Karl can sign a contract on his back. He
text: spots Edward walking back into the tent.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Hey kid! Your friend just made himself
dialog: a star.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: That's great.
text: Amos hands off the contract to a CLOWN.
speaker_heading: (INTRODUCING)
dialog: My attorney, Mr. Soggybottom.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Good to meet you.
text: Mr. Soggybottom HONKS his horn, then waddles off.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: What's the matter with you, kid? I
dialog: haven't seen a customer so depressed
dialog: since the elephant sat on that
dialog: farmer's wife.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Get it? "Depressed?"
text: Karl chuckles.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: See! The big guy likes it.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I just saw the woman I'm going to
dialog: marry, I know it. But then I lost
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Tough break. Most men have to get
dialog: married before they lose their wives.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (with absolute
dialog: conviction)
dialog: I'm going to spend the rest of my
dialog: life looking for her. That or die
dialog: alone.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Jesus, kid.
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Let me guess. Real pretty, blonde
dialog: hair, blue hat?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: I know her uncle. Friends of the
dialog: family.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Who is she? Where does she live?
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Kid. Don't waste your time. She's
dialog: out of your league.
text: As Amos starts to walk away, Edward hurries to catch up with
text: him. Karl follows as well.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What do you mean? You don't even
dialog: know me.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Sure I do. You were hot shit back in
dialog: Hickville, but here in the real world,
dialog: you got squat. You don't have a plan.
dialog: You don't have a job. You don't have
dialog: anything but the clothes on your
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I've got a whole backpack full of
dialog: clothes!
text: He points to the bleachers, where no backpack is to be found.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Someone stole my backpack.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Kid, you were a big fish in a small
dialog: pond. This here is the ocean, and
dialog: you're drowning. Take my advice and
dialog: go back to Puddleville. You'll be
dialog: happy there.
text: Getting in front of Amos, Edward stops him.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Wait. You said I don't have a plan.
dialog: I do. I'm going to find that girl
dialog: and marry her and spend the rest of
dialog: my life with her.
text: Amos smiles, amused.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I don't have a job, but I would have
dialog: a job if you gave me one. And I may
dialog: not have much, but I have more
dialog: determination than any man you're
dialog: ever going to meet.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Sorry, kid. I don't do charity.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll work night and day, and you
dialog: won't have to pay me. You just have
dialog: to tell me who she is.
text: Amos takes a long look at him. Ultimately, there's no way he
text: can say no. He shrugs. What the hell.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Every month you work for me, I'll
dialog: tell you one thing about her. That's
dialog: my final offer.
text: Edward shakes Amos's hand before he can retract the offer.
text: We move into a MONTAGE:
scene_heading: INT. BIG TOP CENTER RING - NIGHT
text: CLOSE ON Edward, smiling nervously. His head is tilted to
text: the side, and as we PULL BACK, we see why: he's holding it
text: in a MASSIVE LION's open mouth. The beast's sharp teeth are
text: just poking his skin. If the lion so much as flinches, Edward
text: is dead.
text: The CROWD applauds, which makes the lion antsy. Which makes
dialog: Edward antsier.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: From that moment on, I did everything
dialog: Mr. Calloway asked, and a lot of
dialog: things he didn't. I'd go three days
dialog: without stopping to eat, and four
dialog: days without sleeping.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HYDRA - DAY
text: His eyes droopy from lack of sleep, Edward mans the whirling
dialog: amusement park ride.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: The only thing that kept me going
dialog: was the promise of meeting the girl
dialog: who would be my wife.
text: Nodding off, Edward falls backward, into the path of the
text: spinning arms. One of the Hydra cars hits him square in the
text: gut, throwing him up and away, sailing 200 feet through the
dialog: air.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY
text: Edward chases a costumed pig, tripping over tent cords,
text: falling in the mud.
text: His hunt leads him through the back of a tent, where he's
text: unwittingly stepped in front of a line of motorized birds.
text: To the left, CUSTOMERS are shooting with rifles. He dodges
text: four SHOTS that knock down the birds around him.
text: He catches his breath, lucky.
text: Then a half-blind OLD WOMAN pulls her trigger, hitting him
text: in the shoulder.
scene_heading: EXT. BEHIND A TENT - DAY
text: Karl the Giant bandages Edward's arm as well as he can. Amos
text: is walking past.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Mr. Calloway! It's been a month today.
text: Amos stops, looks at the young man. Finally...
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: This girl, the love of your life.
text: Her favorite flower is daffodils.
text: He walks away. We PUSH IN on Edward, enraptured by the
dialog: concept.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Daffodils.
dialog: (to Karl)
dialog: Daffodils!
scene_heading: INT. STABLES - DAY
text: Edward shovels shit in the nastiest stables you've ever seen.
dialog: But all he can think about is...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Daffodils!
text: The wonder of it. He goes back to shoveling, a smile on his
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: True to his word, every month Amos
dialog: would tell me something new about
dialog: the woman of my dreams.
scene_heading: INT. A DARK PLACE - NIGHT
text: CLOSE ON Edward, lost in quiet reverie, pondering his latest
dialog: bit of information.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: College! She's going to college!
text: A sudden EXPLOSION as Edward is shot...
scene_heading: INT. BIG TOP - NIGHT [CONTINUOUS]
text: ...out of a giant cannon.
scene_heading: INT. STABLES - NIGHT
text: Under a full moon, Edward feeds the animals.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Music! She likes music. I like music
dialog: too!
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Over the months, I learned a lot
dialog: about the woman I was going to marry,
dialog: but not her name, and not where to
dialog: find her.
dialog: That time had come. I couldn't wait any longer.
scene_heading: EXT. AMOS CALLOWAY'S TRAILER - NIGHT
text: Under a full moon, Edward walks up to the battered camper,
text: and is about to knock when he notices it's rocking. A lot.
text: Not just that, there's MOANING coming from inside.
text: But Edward KNOCKS anyway.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Mr. Calloway! It's Edward Bloom. I
dialog: need to talk to you.
text: Suddenly, the rocking and moaning stop. A beat, then the
text: door handle begins to RATTLE. It seems to be stuck.
text: Edward turns the knob.
text: Suddenly, the door BURSTS OPEN. Edward is knocked down by a
text: massive black dog, biggest you've ever seen. It has green
text: glowing eyes and a lick of fire for a tongue.
text: Edward wrestles with the beast, its mouth snapping at his
dialog: throat.
text: Blocking with an arm, Edward tries to push himself free, but
text: the creature's hands -- it has hands instead of paws -- hold
text: on tight.
text: Entwined, they roll across the dirt. The other nearby CARNIES
text: scatter for cover. Mr. Soggybottom pulls a revolver out of
text: his clown suit. Loads a silver bullet.
text: Edward finally succeeds in throwing the beast off. He rolls
text: to his feet.
text: The hell hound squares back on its haunches, GROWLING, ready
text: for another leap. Mr. Soggybottom sheds a clown tear, aiming
text: the revolver at the dog.
dialog: At the last moment...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: No, wait!
text: Edward moves just as Mr. Soggybottom FIRES. The bullet catches
text: Edward in the shoulder, knocking him down.
dialog: The carnies GASP.
text: Licking its chops, the dog approaches the helpless Edward,
text: who feels the ground around him, looking for some kind of
text: weapon. He finds only a small stick. He waves it at the dog,
text: ready to strike it.
text: Like magic, the dog's whole demeanor changes. It bounces
text: excitedly, ready to play fetch.
text: Seeing an opportunity, Edward throws the stick as far as he
text: can. The dog bounds after it,
text: SMASHING DOWN THREE CARS.
text: It returns a beat later with the flaming stick, which it
text: drops at Edward's feet. Its tail whips back and forth.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: It was that night I discovered that
dialog: most things you consider evil or
dialog: wicked are simply lonely, and lacking
dialog: in the social niceties.
text: Edward throws the stick again. The dog takes off in a new
dialog: direction.
scene_heading: TRANSITION TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - PRE-DAWN
text: Exhausted from playing fetch all night, Edward throws the
text: stick into the woods. The still-spry dog goes after it. It's
text: gone for a long time, long enough that Edward becomes
dialog: concerned.
text: He follows it into the woods.
scene_heading: INT. WOODS - DAWN
text: Amos Calloway stands up behind a bush, buck naked and hairy.
text: He still has the stick in his mouth, which he takes out as
text: Edward approaches.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Didn't kill anything, did I?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: A few rabbits, but I think one of
dialog: them was already dead.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: That would explain the indigestion.
text: Edward tosses him his jacket to cover his privates.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: I was wrong about you kid. You may
dialog: not have much, but what you got, you
dialog: got a lot of. You could get any girl.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: There's only one I want.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Her name is Sandra Templeton. She's
dialog: going to Auburn. The semester's almost
dialog: over, so you better hurry.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: AMOS
dialog: Good luck, kid.
text: Edward walks away. Then starts running. He has to get there
dialog: as soon as possible.
text: Amos sits down and scratches his ear with his foot.
scene_heading: EXT. BIG TOP - DAY
text: Edward shakes Karl's giant hand. They hug.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: After saying my goodbyes, I hopped
dialog: three trains to get to Auburn that
dialog: afternoon.
scene_heading: EXT. AUBURN UNIVERSITY - DAY
text: We DESCEND ON the main quad, to find Edward Bloom dunking
text: his head in the fountain.
text: He changes out of his grubby shirt into a new one, just out
dialog: of the package. It's the mid-1960's, but by the conservative
text: dress of the passing STUDENTS, it could be any era.
scene_heading: EXT. SORORITY HOUSE - DAY
text: Edward stands with a bouquet of daffodils in front of a half-
text: open door. Through the crack we can see the edge of a YOUNG
text: WOMAN, talking in hushed tones with another girl we can't
dialog: see.
text: Finally, a decision is reached. The door opens to reveal the
dialog: woman of Edward's dreams, Sandra Kay Templeton. She's
text: effortlessly beautiful, pure and simple as sunlight.
text: He can't believe he's finally reached her. He half-laughs,
text: nervous. That makes her laugh, not sure what's going on.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You don't know me, but my name is
dialog: Edward Bloom and I am in love with
dialog: you. I've spent the last three years
dialog: working to find out who you are.
dialog: I've been shot and stabbed and
dialog: trampled a few times, had my ribs
dialog: broken twice, but it's all worth it
dialog: to see you here, now, and to finally
dialog: get to talk to you. Because I am
dialog: destined to marry you. I knew that
dialog: from the first moment I saw you at
dialog: the circus. And I know it now more
dialog: than ever.
text: ON SANDRA, overwhelmed. All she can finally think of to say
dialog: is...
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Don't need to apologize to me. I
dialog: mean, I'm the luckiest person you're
dialog: going to find today...
text: She puts her hand on the door frame. On her left ring finger,
text: we see a diamond.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: No I'm sorry, I... I'm engaged to be
dialog: married.
text: ON EDWARD as his heart falls 20 floors. He tries to suppress
text: the reaction, put on a brave front.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: But you're wrong. I do know you, at
dialog: least by reputation. Edward Bloom
dialog: from Ashton. See, I'm actually engaged
dialog: to a boy from Ashton. Don Price. He
dialog: was a few years older than you.
scene_heading: FLASHCUTS TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CREEPY OLD HOUSE - THE GATE - NIGHT
text: Young Don Price shines his flashlight on Edward.
scene_heading: VARIOUS H.S. ATHLETIC COMPETITIONS 93
dialog: Recapping earlier football, baseball and basketball
dialog: highlights, we find Edward beats Don every time.
scene_heading: THE STREET CORNER / ASHTON PARADE
text: A smoking Don Price crushes his cigarette as Edward leaves
dialog: town.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT/INT. SORORITY HOUSE - THE DOORWAY
text: Edward is dumbstruck. With all the strength he can muster...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Well. Congratulations. I'm sorry to
dialog: have bothered you.
text: He turns and walks down the front steps.
text: She stays in the doorway for a few beats, feeling genuinely
text: horrible for what's happened. But eventually she goes back
text: inside. We hear GIGGLES from inside as her sorority sisters
dialog: get to the bottom of this.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Stop it. It's not funny. That poor
dialog: boy.
text: We LEAD Edward as he walks away, tears just starting to form.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Fate has a cruel way of circling
dialog: around on you. After all this work
dialog: to leave Ashton, the girl I loved
dialog: was now engaged to one of its biggest
text: jerks.
text: He EXITS FRAME, leaving only the sorority house in the
dialog: background.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: There's a time when a man needs to
dialog: fight, and a time when he needs to
dialog: accept that his destiny is lost,
dialog: that the ship has sailed, and that
dialog: only a fool would continue.
text: A beat. Edward steps back INTO FRAME, looking at the sorority
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: The truth is, I've always been a
dialog: fool.
text: We CIRCLE as he shouts:
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Sandra Templeton! I love you! And I
dialog: am going to marry you!
scene_heading: INT. SORORITY HOUSE FOYER - DAY
text: Sandra and her SISTERS peer out through the curtains. Is
dialog: this guy crazy?
scene_heading: INT. LECTURE HALL - DAY
text: The tweedy ECONOMICS PROFESSOR continues his explanation.
text: Sandra isn't paying a lot of attention.
text: He switches on the overhead projector without looking at it.
text: There's a TITTER from the STUDENTS, but he doesn't notice.
text: A classmate nudges Sandra, who looks up. Written on the
text: projector is "I Love Sandra Templeton." She's horrified and
text: excited at the same time. The professor finally notices what's
dialog: written there.
scene_heading: EXT. QUAD - DAY
text: Walking with her books, Sandra shakes her head, disbelieving.
text: We look up to the blue sky, where a giant sky-written heart
text: floats in the wind.
scene_heading: INT. SANDRA'S BEDROOM - [THE NEXT] MORNING
text: At her Sisters' prompting, a just-woken Sandra looks out the
text: second-story window to find the lawn filled with
text: TEN THOUSAND DAFFODILS.
text: Edward stands amid the sea of flowers. He's waited there six
dialog: hours.
scene_heading: EXT. SORORITY HOUSE - DAY
text: Sandra walks out to him. She's smiling, confused, joyful and
text: scared. All down Greek Street, STUDENTS are coming out to
dialog: see the display.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Daffodils?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: They're your favorite flower.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: How did you get so many?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I called everywhere in five states
dialog: and explained this was the only way
dialog: I could get my wife to marry me.
text: Out of nowhere, a tear drops down Sandra's cheek. She wipes
dialog: it off.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You don't even know me.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I have the rest of my life to find
dialog: out.
text: From down the street...
speaker_heading: A MAN'S VOICE
dialog: Sandra!
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: It's Don. Promise me you won't hurt
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: If that's what you want, I swear to
dialog: it.
text: The adult DON PRICE arrives. He's 230 pounds of football-
text: playing, Skynyrd-loving, fraternity-proud muscle. And he's
dialog: pissed.
text: A gang of his BROTHERS walk behind him.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: Bloom!
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Don.
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: What the hell are you doing? This is
dialog: my girl. Mine!
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I didn't know she belonged to anybody.
text: Don Price decks him, knocking him down. Edward gets right
text: back up, but makes no move to defend himself.
text: Unfazed, Don slugs him again.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Stop it!
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: (ignoring)
dialog: What the matter, Bloom? Too scared
dialog: to fight back?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I promised I wouldn't.
text: A beat. Don shrugs, fine. Then proceeds to kick Edward's ass
dialog: nine ways to Sunday.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: While I took the beating of a
dialog: lifetime, it was Don Price who was
text: ultimately defeated.
text: As the ass-whupping continues, we
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
scene_heading: INT. FRATERNITY HOUSE BATHROOM - DAY [FLASHFORWARD]
text: Sitting on the can, Don Price pinches a loaf while reading
dialog: the new Playboy.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: All the physical activity had worsened
dialog: a congenital valve defect. Put simply,
dialog: his heart wasn't strong enough.
text: Don Price squeezes down hard, trying to shit the unshittable.
text: Suddenly, he grasps his chest and collapses face-first on
dialog: the tile.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WITCH'S HOUSE / GATE - NIGHT [FLASHBACK]
text: The same image of Don's dead face on the tile is reflected
dialog: in The Eye.
scene_heading: RETURNING BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE SORORITY HOUSE - DAY
text: The thrashing continues. Edward somehow fights his way back
text: to his feet, ready to be knocked down again.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Don!
text: Don is about to slug Edward again when he turns.
text: Sandra pulls off her engagement ring. There's an audible
text: AHH! from her sisters, and an OHH! from Don's brothers.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I will never marry you.
text: A beat. Don stands stunned, his mind reeling.
text: Edward, whose eyes are swollen almost shut, keeps waiting
text: for the next punch. Where is it? What's going on?
speaker_heading: DON PRICE
dialog: What. You love this guy?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: He's almost a stranger and I prefer
dialog: him to you.
text: She hands him the ring. Another beat, then Don storms off.
text: But not before decking Edward one last time.
text: Sandra leans over Edward's broken body. His head lies on the
text: daffodils.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: How can I convince you to stop?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Go out with me.
text: He smiles, his teeth bloody.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Okay.
text: As the crowd of students APPLAUDS and CHEERS, we CRANE UP
text: above the flowered battlefield.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: As it turned out, Sandra was able to
dialog: keep her same date at the chapel.
dialog: Only the groom had changed.
text: As the MUSIC reaches a crescendo, we suddenly...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GUEST ROOM - NIGHT [PRESENT]
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I thought you said you didn't have a
dialog: church wedding.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Well, we were all set to, but there
dialog: was a complication.
text: He reaches for his glass of water, but Josephine already has
text: it for him. She watches him while he slowly drinks the entire
text: glass, thirstier than he imagined. While he's drinking, we...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT [CONTINUOUS]
text: Will, back from the grocery store, reaches the top of the
text: stairs. He hears voices coming from the bedroom.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE (O.S.)
dialog: Is it the medicine that's making you
dialog: thirsty?
speaker_heading: EDWARD (O.S.)
dialog: Truth is, I've been thirsty my whole
dialog: life. Never really known why.
text: Will quietly approaches the door, not exactly sneaking, but
text: not exactly announcing his presence. The door is open a few
text: inches, letting him look in on his father and his wife.
scene_heading: INTERCUT HALLWAY / BEDROOM
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: There was one time when I was
dialog: eleven...
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: (gently)
dialog: You were talking about your wedding.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I didn't forget. I was just working
dialog: on a tangent. See, most men, they'll
text: tell a story straight through, and
dialog: it won't be complicated, but it won't
dialog: be interesting either.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I like your stories.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: And I like you.
text: He doesn't let the moment linger with undue sentimentality.
dialog: There's a story to be told.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Now. The thing about working for a
dialog: circus is you don't have a regular
dialog: address, and after three years I had
text: a lot of undelivered mail.
text: In the hallway, Will shifts to a new position, letting himself
dialog: listen to the story one more time.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: During the four weeks I was in the
text: hospital, the postmaster finally
dialog: caught up with me.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL - DAY
text: Bruised and bandaged, Edward sorts through a big bag of mail
text: with help from Sandra. He rips open an official-looking
text: letter. Reading it, his face drops.
text: FLUTE and DRUM, music rising to a military cadence.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: It turned out that while my heart
dialog: belonged to Sandra, the rest of my
dialog: body belonged to the U.S. Government.
scene_heading: INT. ARMY AIRPLANE - NIGHT
text: With a buzz cut and paratrooper gear, Edward squats with a
text: dozen other SOLDIERS. The noise of the ENGINES is deafening,
text: but Edward is engrossed in an Asian phrasebook.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: A hitch in the Army was up to three
dialog: years at that point, and having waited
dialog: three years just to meet Sandra, I
dialog: knew I couldn't survive being away
dialog: from her that long. So I took every
dialog: hazardous assignment I could find,
dialog: with the hope of getting my time
dialog: down to less than a year.
text: The JUMP LEADER yells...
speaker_heading: JUMP LEADER
dialog: GO! GO! GO!
text: One by one the men jump out, their chutes clipped to a main
text: line. When his time comes, Edward leaps...
text: ...but he's stuck. His cord is caught up in the assembly.
text: He twists and struggles, trying to free himself. Looking
text: down, he can see the white parachutes disappearing into the
text: darkness. They're already long gone.
text: Digging a knife out of his pocket, Edward gets to work cutting
text: through the cable. It finally POPS. Edward jumps from the
dialog: plane.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSIDE STAGE - NIGHT
text: A THOUSAND CHINESE SOLDIERS sit, bored, watching the
dialog: equivalent of a U.S.O. show.
text: A CHINESE VENTRILOQUIST is on stage with his Communist puppet.
text: We have no idea what they're saying to each other, but every
dialog: act is fundamentally the same.
text: The EMCEE comes on to usher him off the stage before he's
text: finished. The Ventriloquist protests, but finally gives in.
text: The Emcee makes a "shoot him in the neck" motion to one of
text: the ARMED GUARDS off-stage.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH ABOVE THE STAGE - NIGHT
text: We LOOK DOWN with Edward, who is drifting right for the stage.
text: He can't steer. He's helpless.
text: But then, a BLAST of fireworks from the sides of the stage.
text: The lights go out as a DRUM ROLL begins. It's just enough
text: cover for Edward to remain unseen.
text: He lands with a CLANG on the lighting catwalk above the stage.
text: He barely grabs on, disconnecting his chute just as the
text: curtain goes up. Edward looks out at the sea of excited
text: soldiers. Every one of them would kill him. He's the legless
text: cricket left on the anthill.
scene_heading: EXT. ON STAGE
text: The curtain rises to reveal PING (27) at a microphone. She's
dialog: as gorgeous a woman as you'll ever see.
text: She stands with her hips turned in profile. Her body is a
text: knockout, dress cut to reveal skin. The soldiers are on their
text: feet, WHISTLING and HOLLERING.
text: UP ON THE CATWALK, Edward is surprised by an ENEMY SOLDIER.
text: The two men begin to SCUFFLE.
text: MUSIC starts, a vampy torch song. Ping sings melody while an
text: off-stage voice carries perfect harmony.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: Sometimes a girl can feel so alone
dialog: Without a lover to call her own.
dialog: Sometimes it's so bad, she wants to
dialog: explode.
text: Wants to grab the first man she sees
text: and tear off his clothes.
text: A ROAR from the soldiers. She knows what they want.
text: Still fighting, Edward jumps for a pole on the far side of
text: the catwalk, sliding down it to end up
text: BACKSTAGE.
text: His determined opponent follows him down.
speaker_heading: PING (CONT'D)
dialog: But she won't.
dialog: No, she can't.
dialog: She needs a special special different
dialog: unusual man.
dialog: Because that girl,
dialog: Who looks like me,
dialog: She has wants, but she has needs.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: (speaking)
dialog: Any of you got needs?
text: The soldiers ROAR LOUDER, STOMPING on the bleachers.
text: Backstage, the two men are still fighting.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: (chorus)
dialog: I've had twice the adventure,
dialog: Cried double the tears.
dialog: Two times the bad times in half the
dialog: years.
dialog: I need a strong man, because I've
dialog: got
dialog: Twice the love to give.
text: For the first time, Ping turns, and now we see why she was
text: standing in profile. Ping is one-half of
scene_heading: SIAMESE TWINS.
text: Her identical twin is JING, who's been singing harmony all
text: this time. They are two separate women who join at the waist,
text: one set of perfect legs beneath them.
text: Edward sees the twins from behind, does a double-take. It
text: costs him a punch to the jaw.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: Say hello, Jing.
speaker_heading: JING
dialog: Hello Jing.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: (to the crowd)
dialog: I'm Ping. She's Jing. She's the good
dialog: one.
dialog: (closer)
dialog: I'm the bad one.
text: As the MUSIC builds towards the climax, Edward finishes the
text: fight, knocking the guard out with a right hook.
text: As Ping and Jing reach the last chorus, they strike a final
text: pose in the shape of a heart, their arms forming the arches,
text: their backs forming the curves.
text: Edward slips behind curtains, trying to get away.
text: The soldiers are SHOUTING for an encore, lighters waving.
text: The curtain slowly lowers, revealing
scene_heading: EDWARD'S PARACHUTE.
text: The APPLAUSE dies, replaced by a concerned RUMBLE. The Emcee
text: yells for the Guards to search.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: Ping has no idea what's happening. Jing reaches into her
text: cleavage to pull out her eyeglasses.
scene_heading: INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT
text: As ARMED GUARDS search the halls below the stage, Ping and
text: Jing shut the door to their dressing room. At the closet,
text: they start to change outfits. Off-stage, their personalities
text: become quite apparent: Ping is brash, bitchy and ambitious,
text: while Jing is quiet, sweet and bookish.
text: In Chinese, subtitled...
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: How could you miss your cue? You
dialog: make me look like a fool, out there
dialog: alone.
speaker_heading: JING
dialog: You weren't alone.
text: Ping HUFFS, turning her back on her sister.
text: Jing reaches deeper into the closet to find a new dress,
text: exposing Edward's hiding place. She GASPS. Ping turns to
dialog: look.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: Who the hell are you?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (in Chinese)
dialog: I'm not going to hurt you.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: Damn right you're not.
dialog: (yelling)
speaker_heading: GUARD!
text: Jing grabs her, a hand over her mouth, but it's too late. A
text: rifle-toting GUARD looks in.
dialog: Pretending to be her bitchy sister --
speaker_heading: JING
dialog: Tell your men not to bother us! And
dialog: lock that door!
text: The guard obeys. Ping shakes her sister off. Desperately
text: flipping through his Asian phrasebook, he finds...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Please, I need your help.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: What makes you think we'll help you?
text: Edward pulls a photo out of his flak jacket. It's Sandra.
speaker_heading: CROSSFADE TO:
speaker_heading: VARIOUS SHOTS
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Over the next hour, I described my
dialog: love for Sandra Kay Templeton, and
dialog: the ordeal that brought me before
dialog: them. As it had always been, this
dialog: love was my salvation. It was destined
dialog: to be.
text: Hearing the story, Jing wipes away a tear. Even Ping is a
dialog: little affected.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
text: We put together an elaborate plan
dialog: for escape, involving a whaling ship
dialog: to Russia, a barge to Cuba and a
dialog: small, dirty canoe to Miami. We all
dialog: knew it would be dangerous.
dialog: Still subtitled:
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: And what are we supposed to do when
dialog: we get to America?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I can get you bookings. I know the
dialog: biggest man in show business.
speaker_heading: JING
dialog: Bob Hope?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Bigger.
scene_heading: TRANSITION TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLETON FAMILY HOUSE - DAY
text: Sandra checks the mail, hoping for a letter from Edward.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: And so the twins and I began our
text: arduous journey halfway around the
dialog: world. Unfortunately, there was no
dialog: way to send a message back to America.
text: A black car pulls up. Two ARMY OFFICERS get out.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: And so it was no surprise that the
dialog: Army believed I was dead.
text: Hearing the news, Sandra CRIES OUT. The pain of her shout
dialog: makes church bells RING.
scene_heading: EXT. BEHIND THE TEMPLETON HOUSE - DAY
text: Sandra hangs sheets to dry on the clotheslines, forming a
text: tunnel of fabric.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: After four months, Sandra had gotten
text: over the worst of the nightmares.
dialog: When the phone rang, she didn't think
dialog: it was somehow me calling her. When
text: a car drove past, she didn't get up
text: to check out the window.
text: Pulling a dress out of the basket, Sandra looks up to see
scene_heading: A MAN'S SILHOUETTE
text: on the sheet in front of her. She freezes, watching the shadow
text: ripple across the white fabric, blowing so softly in the
text: breeze. She knows it can't be him. He's dead.
text: She turns away. With all the strength she can gather, she
text: hangs up that dress and digs another one out of the basket.
text: Looking up, she sees not a shadow but Edward himself standing
text: before her. She GASPS, disbelieving, but his hand is real.
dialog: It is destiny.
text: Without another moment's hesitation, she kisses him.
speaker_heading: CROSSFADE TO:
scene_heading: BRIGHT SUNLIGHT
text: filters through soft sheets. We're under the covers, where a
text: man's hand traces the curves of a woman's bare back. A beat,
text: then she turns over in bed, revealing her to be
scene_heading: JOSEPHINE.
text: She blinks slowly, just waking up. Will is watching her.
dialog: He's been up for a while. We are actually...
scene_heading: INT. WILL AND JOSEPHINE'S ROOM - DAY
text: ...where the couple stays cocooned under the sheets, a kind
text: of limbo. A kiss good morning. Legs entangling. Neither wants
dialog: to get up.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I talked with your father last night.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Did you?
dialog: A look to say, should I be worried?
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: You never told me how your parents
dialog: met.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: They met at Auburn.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: What about the details? How they
text: fell in love. The Circus. The War.
dialog: You never told me any of that.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: That's because most of it never
dialog: happened.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: But it's romantic.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (non-committal)
dialog: Mmm.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Mmm, what?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Mmm, what. I know better than to
text: argue romance with a French woman.
text: He moves his head out from under the sheet. She follows him
dialog: to the "outside."
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Do you love your father?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Everyone loves my father. He's a
dialog: very likeable guy.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: (repeating)
dialog: Do you love him?
text: Will doesn't want to answer yes or no.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You have to understand. When I was
dialog: growing up, he was gone more than he
dialog: was here. And I started thinking --
dialog: maybe he has a second life somewhere
text: else. With another house, another
text: family. He leaves us, he goes to
text: them. Or maybe there is no family.
dialog: Maybe he never wanted a family. But
dialog: whatever it is, maybe he likes that
dialog: second life better. And the reason
dialog: he tells all those stories is because
dialog: he can't stand this boring place.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: But it's not true.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What is "true?" I've never heard my
dialog: father say a single true thing.
dialog: Off her silence...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Look, I know why you like him. I
dialog: know why everyone likes him. But I
dialog: need you to tell me I'm not crazy.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: You're not.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I need you on my side.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I am always on your side. And I think
dialog: you should talk to him.
scene_heading: INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY
text: The family finishes eating breakfast off TV trays set up
text: around the bed. For his part, Edward is looking better.
text: Certainly not recovered, but there's an optimism to his
text: expression. And for the first time, he's actually hungry.
text: He watches as Sandra puts the cap back on the syrup.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Did I ever tell you about how...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Yes.
text: Edward is startled.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: The maple tree and the Buick. We
dialog: heard it.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (re: Josephine)
dialog: I think someone hasn't.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
text: The tree fell on the car, spilling
dialog: the syrup, which attracted the flies,
text: which got stuck to it and flew off
text: with the whole car.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (undeterred)
dialog: But the real story is how I got the
dialog: car. You see...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Dad?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Son?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Can we talk?
text: Sandra SNAPS the cap back on the syrup.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I'm going to get started on dishes.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I'll help you.
text: Both women quickly gather plates.
text: Will and Edward both smile. The women clearly want this to
text: happen. It settles for a beat after they leave.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Do you know much about icebergs,
dialog: Dad?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Do I? I saw an iceberg once. They
dialog: were hauling it down to Texas for
dialog: drinking water, only they didn't
dialog: count on an elephant being frozen
text: inside. The woolly kind. A mammoth.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Dad!
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I'm trying to make a metaphor here.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Then you shouldn't have started with
dialog: a question. Because people want to
dialog: answer questions. You should have
dialog: started with, "The thing about
dialog: icebergs is..."
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: The thing about icebergs is you only
dialog: see 10 percent of them. The other 90
dialog: percent is below the water where you
dialog: can't see it. And that's what it is
dialog: with you Dad. I'm only seeing this
text: little bit that sticks above the
dialog: water.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (joking)
dialog: What, you're seeing down to my nose?
dialog: My chin?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I have no idea who you are because
dialog: you have never told me a single fact.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I've told you a thousand facts. That's
dialog: all I do, Will. I tell stories.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You tell lies, Dad. You tell amusing
dialog: lies. Stories are what you tell a
text: five-year old at bedtime. They're
dialog: not elaborate mythologies you maintain
dialog: when your son is ten and fifteen and
dialog: twenty and thirty. And the thing is,
dialog: I believed you. I believed your
dialog: stories so much longer than I should
dialog: have. And then when I realized that
dialog: everything you said was impossible --
dialog: everything! -- I felt like such a
dialog: fool to have trusted you. You were
dialog: like Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny
dialog: combined. Just as charming and just
dialog: as fake.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You think I'm fake.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Only on the surface. But that's all
dialog: I've ever seen.
text: Edward looks away, angry and disbelieving.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Dad, I'm about to have a kid of my
dialog: own here. It would kill me if he
dialog: went through his whole life never
dialog: understanding me.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: It would kill you, huh?
dialog: Finally --
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What do you want, Will? Who do you
dialog: want me to be?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yourself. Good, bad, everything.
dialog: Just show me who you are for once.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I have been nothing but myself since
dialog: the day I was born. And if you can't
dialog: see that, it's your failing, not
dialog: mine.
scene_heading: EXT. BACKYARD - DAY
text: With a skimmer pole, Will cleans the leaves and debris out
text: of the pool, but it's a fool's errand. The pool has long
text: since gone native, a shiny slick of algae on the surface,
text: slime covering the cemented rocks.
text: Suddenly, an underwater shape RIPPLES against the water's
text: surface. Will is so startled that he drops the pole, which
text: disappears into the murky water.
text: A beat. He looks around, relieved that no one saw that. He
text: casually walks away.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT STORAGE AREA - DAY
text: The doors open to reveal Sandra, Will and Josephine, staring
text: into the mouth of oblivion. The storeroom is a museum of
dialog: hasty decisions and half-finished projects: partially built
text: outboard motors, dead bonsai trees, Frankensteinian
dialog: lawnmowers. We also find boxes of products Edward used to
dialog: sell.
text: Clearing a path, Sandra leads Will to a roll-top desk, its
text: ribs covered in dust. Two beaten metal file cabinets sit
text: beside it.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Your father decided he needed to
dialog: have an office, and it wouldn't do
dialog: to have it in the house. You'll know
dialog: better than me what's important.
text: With some effort, Will forces up the desktop. With a HISS, a
text: neighbor's cat makes a run for it. Will's getting used to
text: being startled.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT STORAGE AREA - DAY [LATER]
text: Will, Sandra and Josephine have worked through two trash
text: bags of papers to throw out. Looking through a new file,
text: Sandra makes a small sound. A memory.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What is it?
text: Sandra hands Will a yellowed telegram. He shares it with
dialog: Josephine.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: It was during the war. Your father
dialog: went missing. They thought he was
dialog: dead.
text: Will can't believe what he's reading.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: That really happened?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Not everything your father says is a
dialog: complete fabrication.
text: A beat, then Sandra stands.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I'm going to check on him.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I need to lie down for a bit.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Go.
text: Josephine kisses him, then follows Sandra. Will re-reads the
text: telegram, still bewildered.
text: Looking for a place to put it, he tucks it into a strange
text: mechanical hand on the desk. It clamps down automatically.
text: Will smiles, a memory. He hasn't thought about this device
text: in years. We slowly PUSH IN on the telegram, held in the
dialog: hand.
text: Edward's VOICE begins as a memory...
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: After the war, the sons of Alabama
text: returned home, looking for work.
dialog: Each had an advantage over me. They
dialog: were alive, while I was -- officially --
dialog: deceased.
scene_heading: INT. DOWNTOWN OFFICE - DAY [STORY]
text: Edward shakes hands with his new boss, a TOUPEED MAN. The
text: company is called "Confederated Products." The OFFICE LADIES
dialog: all love Edward.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: With my prospects few, I took a job
dialog: as a travelling salesman. It suited
dialog: me. If there's one thing you can say
dialog: about Edward Bloom, it's that I am a
dialog: social person.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTY FAIR - DAY [STORY]
text: On a low platform, Edward pitches a brilliant new product to
dialog: the crowd.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I've travelled from Tennessee to
dialog: Timbuktu, and if there's one thing
dialog: people have in common, is we could
text: all use a hand around the house.
text: Edward sets down a contraption, which looks something like a
text: metal lava lamp. Like a flower, it unfolds to reveal five
dialog: fingers and a thumb. This is the Hand Around the House.(TM)
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Why, with this product you can...
text: QUICK MONTAGE as he demonstrates:
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Open a jar. Open a letter. Scratch
dialog: yourself while wearing mittens. Hold
dialog: a book. Hold a baby. Hold the dog
dialog: away from kittens. It's strong enough,
dialog: you can do a handstand with no hands
dialog: at all.
text: Indeed, a remarkably agile Edward is able to support his
text: entire weight on it. The crowd APPLAUDS.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You can use it to point out important
dialog: information. Or dangers. Or beautiful
dialog: women.
text: The hand points a finger at an HEAVYSET MAN IN OVERALLS.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: We're still working on that one.
text: The crowd LAUGHS.
scene_heading: EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD - DAY
text: Edward drives, his hand out in the wind.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Soon I added other products, and
dialog: other cities, until my territory
dialog: stretched from the coast to western
dialog: Texas.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAILER PARK - DAY
text: Edward kisses his pregnant wife goodbye, as much in love as
dialog: ever.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: I could be gone for weeks at a time.
dialog: But every other Friday, I'd put all
dialog: the money I'd made into an account
text: set aside for a proper house with a
text: white picket fence.
scene_heading: EXT. HORIZON SAVINGS &amp; LOAN - DAY
dialog: Establishing this Texas institution, we come...
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON SAVINGS &amp; LOAN - DAY
text: The bank is busy with the lunch-hour crowd. Taking his place
text: in line, Edward fills out a deposit slip.
text: As the line snakes around through the ropes, the man in front
text: of him gets a look at Edward.
speaker_heading: THE MAN
dialog: Edward? Edward Bloom?
dialog: The man is none other than...
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: It's me. Norther Winslow.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: I was astonished to see the greatest
dialog: poet of both Ashton and Spectre all
dialog: the way out in Texas.
text: The men shake, disbelieving this lucky coincidence.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I don't believe it!
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: I want you to know, when you left
text: Spectre it opened my eyes. There was
dialog: a whole life out there that I was
dialog: not living. So I travelled. I saw
dialog: France, and Africa, half of South
dialog: America. Every day a new adventure,
dialog: that's my motto.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: That's great, Norther. I'm happy for
dialog: you. I can't believe I helped.
dialog: He's genuinely proud.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: So what are you up to now?
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: I'm robbing this place.
text: Reaching the front of the line, Norther pulls two pistols
text: out of his coat, FIRING both into the ceiling.
text: SCREAMS all around. The skinny SECURITY GUARD makes a
text: halfhearted reach for his gun, but Norther waves him off.
text: The guard takes out his gun and slides it over.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: (to Edward)
dialog: Would you mind grabbing that?
dialog: There's nothing threatening about his delivery -- he might
text: as well be asking for a Budweiser. Still, Edward senses it
text: would be best to do as he says. He takes the guard's gun.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: (to the crowd)
dialog: Now, I want all of you to lie down.
dialog: I'm gonna be cleaning out the cash
dialog: drawers, and my associate here is
text: going to handle the vault.
dialog: (pointing to a Teller
dialog: Woman)
dialog: You help my friend, okay?
text: The TELLER WOMAN nods.
text: ANGLE ON Edward, not sure what to do. He has a gun, but he
text: truly doesn't want to shoot Norther. The Teller Woman is
text: already waving him to the back.
text: He decides he better go.
scene_heading: INT. AT THE VAULT - DAY
text: The Teller Woman is crying as she works the combination.
text: Edward feels horrible.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Look, I'm really sorry. I just don't
dialog: want anybody to get hurt.
speaker_heading: TELLER WOMAN
dialog: It's not that, it's just...
text: She pulls open the vault door.
scene_heading: INT. THE VAULT - DAY
text: The inner sanctum of the Horizon Savings and Loan holds
text: exactly one folding chair. Nothing else.
speaker_heading: TELLER WOMAN
dialog: ...there's no money. We're completely
dialog: bankrupt.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: It turned out the savings and loan
dialog: had already been robbed -- not by
text: armed bandits, but by speculators in
dialog: Texas real estate.
speaker_heading: TELLER WOMAN
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: You gotta promise you won't tell
dialog: anybody.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. EDWARD'S CAR - DAY
text: Edward drives the getaway car, though truthfully they're
text: going just a little over the speed limit. No one's following
text: them. It's an empty country road for miles.
text: Norther HOLLERS with body-tingling joy as he counts the money.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: Sixty. Eighty. Four hundred dollars!
dialog: Not bad for just the drawers. Let's
dialog: see what you got from the vault.
text: Edward winces, but doesn't say anything yet. Digging through
text: the vault bag, Norther is surprised to find only a single
text: deposit envelope. He rips it open, revealing just a little
text: cash inside. Even some dimes and pennies.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: This is it? The whole vault.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: 'Fraid so.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: Edward, it's got your deposit slip
text: on it.
text: Caught, Edward has to confess...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Look, I just didn't want you to go
dialog: empty-handed. There's something you
dialog: should know, Norther. You see, the
dialog: reason why...
text: Edward continues his narration...
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: I told Norther about the vagaries of
dialog: Texas oil money and its effect on
dialog: real estate prices, and how lax
dialog: enforcement of fiduciary process had
dialog: made savings and loans particularly
dialog: vulnerable.
dialog: Hearing this news, Norther was left with one conclusion:
scene_heading: EXT. TEXAS ROAD - DAY
text: Norther leans in the driver's side window.
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: I should go to Wall Street. That's
dialog: where all the money is.
text: Edward looks over at Norther, the reality sinking in.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: I knew then that while my days as a
dialog: criminal were over, Norther's were
text: just beginning.
text: The two men wave at each other as Edward drives off. At the
text: last moment, Norther calls out:
scene_heading: NORTHER WINSLOW
dialog: Edward, thank you for the hand!
text: He's talking about his Hand Around the House. We HOLD ON
text: Norther for a beat, dreaming of his future.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: When Norther made his first million
dialog: dollars, he sent me a check for ten
dialog: thousand. I protested, but he said
dialog: it was my fee as his career advisor.
scene_heading: EXT. BLOOM HOUSE [MID/LATE '70'S] - DAY
text: Sandra is watering the garden. Will (5) runs past her to
text: greet Edward, just returned from another trip.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: Ten thousand dollars is no fortune
dialog: to most men. But it was enough to
dialog: buy my wife a proper house with a
text: white picket fence.
text: We reveal the Bloom house, the nicest one in the neighborhood.
text: Edward kisses his wife.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (V.O.)
dialog: And for that, it was all the riches
dialog: a man could ever want.
text: Sandra drops the hose, letting it run on the lawn.
scene_heading: TRANSITION TO:
scene_heading: INT. BLOOM HOUSE BATHROOM - DAY [PRESENT]
text: CLOSE ON Edward's hand as he turns knobs.
text: CLOSE ON water SPLASHING into the claw-foot bathtub, which
text: begins to fill.
text: Still wearing his pajamas, Edward climbs into the tub.
text: Carefully lowers himself.
text: As the water reaches the third button up on his pajama shirt,
text: Edward suddenly slides
text: UNDERWATER.
text: Bubbles rise from his nose for a few beats, then stop. It's
text: quiet, except for the distant SPLASHING of water from the
text: spigot. Edward's eyes are closed.
text: A long beat. Another. Then the SPLASHING water goes silent.
text: Edward opens one eye. The other eye. He sits up to find
speaker_heading: SANDRA
text: sitting on the edge of the tub. She doesn't seem particularly
dialog: worried -- her husband has always done this.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I was drying out.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I see. We need to get you one of
dialog: those plant misters. We can spray
dialog: you like a fern.
text: He smiles, then pulls his knees up, making room for her in
text: the tub. A beat while she considers.
text: Sandra steps out of her sandals and climbs into the tub,
text: facing him. Her dress is soaked, but she doesn't mind.
text: He leans forward and kisses her. When they separate, she has
text: tears hanging in her eyes.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Come now.
text: He wipes them away.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I don't think I'll ever dry out.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT STORAGE AREA - DAY
text: Perched awkwardly on a canoe, Will's made it through another
text: file cabinet. He goes through the folders page by page, but
text: usually ends up tossing the whole thing in the trash.
text: He's about to toss a file when he stops. Takes another look.
text: Something doesn't make sense.
scene_heading: INT. BLOOM HOUSE / STAIRS - DAY
text: Will is headed upstairs when his mother comes around the
text: corner with an armful of laundry, including her wet dress.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Is he awake?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
text: He just fell asleep. Josephine's
dialog: with him.
text: She passes him. He turns.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Mom?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Yes?
text: Will quickly debates whether or not to ask her...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Did you and Dad have any other
dialog: property?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: I suppose your grandmother's house
dialog: when she passed on. But we sold that
dialog: right away. Your cousin Shirley bought
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: So you never bought any land.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Heavens no. We had a hard enough
dialog: time keeping the mortgage on this
dialog: place.
text: Will nods, just curious. He continues heading up.
scene_heading: INT. WILL AND JOSEPHINE'S ROOM - DAY
text: Will changes his shirt. Takes his keys off the nightstand.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTY ROAD - DAY
text: Will's rental car drives past a sign reading, "Ashton, 10
dialog: miles."
scene_heading: INT. WILL'S CAR - DAY / DRIVING
text: Will checks the address on one of his father's files.
scene_heading: EXT. ASHTON GAS - DAY
text: Will talks to the ATTENDANT, who points him in a direction,
text: then gestures a series of left, right, left, rights.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: Will drives down a road that seems somewhat familiar. And
text: then we realize why: a roadsign reads "Welcome to Spectre!"
scene_heading: EXT. A LONE HOUSE - DAY
text: Sitting at the edge of a swamp, the little two-story feels
text: lonely, set deep in its lot. Dapples of light break through
text: the trees, a light breeze swaying the branches.
text: As Will walks from the car, the WHIRR of cicadas grows. He
text: checks the number: 33. This is the house. It is surrounded
text: by a white square-picket fence, identical to his mother's.
text: Will notices this.
text: Reaching the porch, we hear a PIANO playing inside. Badly.
text: Re-checking the number on a form he's carrying, Will KNOCKS.
text: The piano stops.
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Go back to the start. Right hand
dialog: only.
text: The piano starts again. FOOTSTEPS.
text: The door opens to reveal a blonde woman in her 50's -- the
text: woman from the grocery store. Her name is Jenny Hill.
text: She and Will are startled to see each other.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Oh. Oh.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I wasn't expecting you.
text: Confused, Will checks the name on the form.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Are you Jenny Hill?
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I am. And you're Will. I've seen
dialog: your picture, that's how I recognize
dialog: you. I almost said something at the
dialog: store, but it would have been awkward.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Like this.
text: The PIANO STUDENT, a black boy of eight, has stopped. He's
text: watching the conversation at the door. Speaking of awkward...
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: (to the student)
dialog: Listen, Kenny. Why don't we skip the
dialog: lesson today? We can go again next
dialog: week.
text: She hands him five dollars out of her pocket.
speaker_heading: STUDENT
dialog: Do I have to give it back to my Mom?
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I won't tell her if you won't.
text: You don't have to tell him twice. He's out the door in a
dialog: flash.
scene_heading: INT. JENNY'S KITCHEN - DAY
text: While Will sips his iced tea, Jenny flips through a form she
text: never expected to see again. She hands it back to Will.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: How did you know my father?
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: This was on his sales route, so he
dialog: was through here all the time.
dialog: Everyone in town knew him.
text: A beat. Not flinching...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Were you and my father having an
dialog: affair?
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: Wow. Wow, you just said it. I was
dialog: expecting to dance around this for
dialog: another half hour.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I've seen him with women. He flirts.
dialog: He always has. On some level, I
dialog: presumed he was cheating on my mother.
dialog: I just never had proof.
text: She moves, trying to get out of the corner he's boxed her
text: into. Once she's finally free...
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Can I ask you a question? Why did
dialog: you come here today? If you found
dialog: this deed, why didn't you just ask
dialog: Eddie?
speaker_heading: WILL
text: Because he's dying.
text: A long beat. Jenny is taken back by the suddenness of it.
text: She's a tangle of conflicting emotions.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Look, I don't know how much you want
dialog: to know about any of this. You have
dialog: one image of your father and it would
dialog: be wrong for me to go and change it.
dialog: Especially this late in the game.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: My father talked about a lot of things
dialog: he never did, and I'm sure he did a
dialog: lot of things he never talked about.
dialog: I'm just trying to reconcile the
dialog: two.
text: Fair enough. Jenny takes a seat across from him at the table.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: The first thing you have to
dialog: understand, is that your father never
dialog: meant to end up here. And yet he
dialog: did, twice. The first time, he was
text: early. The second time, he was late.
scene_heading: INT. EDWARD'S CAR / DRIVING - NIGHT
text: It's late, and Edward is pensive.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: Those days, your father was working
dialog: for himself. If there was one thing
dialog: you could say about Edward Bloom,
dialog: it's that he was a social person,
dialog: and people took a liking to him. One
dialog: night he was returning from three
dialog: weeks on the road, when he hit a
text: thunderstorm unlike any in his life.
text: The first raindrops hit the windshield. Edward turns on the
dialog: wipers.
scene_heading: INT. EDWARD'S CAR - NIGHT - [THE STORM]
text: Suddenly, a deluge descends. It's not even rain anymore --
text: there's no space between the drops. It's like being caught
text: in a waterfall. It's that loud.
text: No choice, Edward stops the car. Puts on the handbrake. Just
text: as suddenly, the sound changes -- no longer pounding, but
text: softly SPLASHING. The world is close and echoing, because --
scene_heading: EXT. EDWARD'S CAR - NIGHT
text: -- the car is underwater. The tires are still on the road,
dialog: but where there used to be air is water.
text: Three catfish swim in front of his headlights.
scene_heading: INT. THE CAR - NIGHT
text: Realizing his plight, Edward tries to remain calm. Water is
text: trickling in through the crack between the window and the
text: door, but very slowly. For now, he's fine.
text: That's when he sees her -- The Girl in the River.
text: She's swimming outside the car. While we never see her face
text: exactly, she remains just as beautiful, just as mysterious,
dialog: as the first time we saw her.
text: She puts her hand to the windshield. He puts his up to meet
text: hers. And smiles.
scene_heading: FLASH CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD BY DIRT ROAD - DAY
text: It's morning, and the sun shines brightly. Birds CHIRP. Trees
text: drip and the grass shines, still wet from last night's rain.
text: Edward gathers the clothes that have spilled out of his
text: suitcase, which broke open when he dropped it from
speaker_heading: HIS CAR,
text: which balances precariously ten feet up in an elm tree. As
text: Edward gathers his last pair of socks, he notices a shiny
text: piece of metal sticking out of the dirt. He pulls it out,
text: rubs it off.
text: It's a key. It's the Key to the City he lost years ago.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
text: Fate has a way of circling back on a
text: man, and taking him by surprise.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: Carrying his busted suitcase, a tired Edward walks toward a
text: one-street town in the distance. We pass a rusty sign...
dialog: "Welcome to Spectre."
scene_heading: EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY
text: Amazed and disbelieving, Edward walks down the center of the
text: road, no cars coming from either direction. He looks up to
text: find his faded shoes still dangling from the power line,
text: along with the rest of the town's.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
text: A man sees things differently at
dialog: different times in his life. This
dialog: town didn't seem the same now that
dialog: he was older.
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN OF SPECTRE - VARIOUS SHOTS
text: We look around the town, on and off Main Street. There are
text: "FOR SALE" signs in many of the windows
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: A new road had brought the outside
text: world to Spectre, and with it, banks,
text: liens and debt. Almost everywhere
dialog: you looked, people were bankrupt.
scene_heading: EXT. SPECTRE - DAY
text: We slowly MOVE THROUGH a foreclosure auction to find Edward
text: watching. Two very corporate MEN IN SUITS, stick out among
dialog: the bidders.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: Two different corporations were
dialog: looking at buying the town, if they
dialog: could get the price low enough. One
dialog: wanted to open a chicken processing
text: plant. The other, a municipal dump.
dialog: Either way, Spectre would be
dialog: destroyed.
text: Edward raises his hand.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Fifty-thousand!
text: Everyone turns to look at this new bidder.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: And so Edward Bloom decided to buy
text: the town, in order to save it.
scene_heading: INT. NORTHER WINSLOW'S MANHATTAN - DAY
text: Edward pitches his plan to Norther.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: He was never a wealthy man, but he
dialog: had made other men rich, and now he
dialog: asked for their favors.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS - DAY
text: VARIOUS SHOTS: Expressive and passionate as always, Edward
text: talks to Ping, Jing and Amos Calloway.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: Most of them had never seen Spectre --
dialog: they only had Edward's words to
dialog: describe it. That's all they needed.
dialog: He sold them on the dream.
speaker_heading: JING
dialog: You can structure it as a historical
dialog: trust. But you'll need every
dialog: contiguous piece of property. It's
dialog: all or nothing.
text: As Edward takes notes...
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: So first he bought the farms. Then
dialog: he bought the houses. Then he bought
dialog: the stores.
scene_heading: INT. AL'S COUNTRY - DAY
text: Finishing up with AL, Edward shakes hands.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: Whatever he bought, the people were
dialog: not asked to leave or pay rent or
dialog: anything. They were just asked to
dialog: keep doing as they were doing. In
dialog: that way, he could make sure the
dialog: town would never die.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD IN THE SWAMP - DAY
text: Edward climbs out of his car, the road having literally
text: stopped. The sun is shining, but it can barely penetrate the
text: trees' thick canopy.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: Within six months, his trust had
dialog: purchased the entire town. With one
dialog: exception.
text: In the distance, he sees a shack, so old it's nearly fallen.
text: He walks toward it, the marshy ground SQUISHING up around
text: his feet, soaking the hems of his trousers.
text: We hear a PIANO playing from inside the shack. Edward KNOCKS
text: on the half-hung door, which swings open by itself.
scene_heading: INT. SHACK - DAY
text: The inside is nicer than you'd think, a real home. A fire
text: burns in the stove, and curtains hang in the windows.
text: With her back turned to him, Jenny Hill plays the piano.
text: Edward doesn't recognize her as the little girl who used to
text: have a crush on him. Without turning, she says...
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: You must be Edward Bloom.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: How did you know?
text: She keeps PLAYING.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: No one would come out here unless
dialog: they had business. And no one would
dialog: have business with me except for
dialog: you. You're buying the town.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Apparently I've overlooked this one
dialog: piece of it, and I'd like to remedy
dialog: that. You see, in order for the town
dialog: to be preserved, the trust must own
text: it in its entirety.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: So I've heard.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll offer you more than it's worth.
dialog: And you know you won't have to move.
dialog: Nothing will change except the name
dialog: on the deed, you have my word.
text: Jenny stops playing, her piece not quite finished. She turns
text: to face him. Edward still doesn't recognize her.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Now let me get this straight. You'll
dialog: buy the swamp from me, but I'll stay
dialog: in it. You'll own the house, but
dialog: it'll still be mine. I'll be here,
dialog: and you'll come and go as you please
dialog: to one place or another. Do I have
dialog: that right?
dialog: Strange to hear it put that way, but --
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: In so many words, yes.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Then I don't think so Mr. Bloom. If
dialog: nothing is going to change, I'd just
dialog: as soon it not change in the way it
dialog: hasn't been changing all this time.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: It's not like you're going to lose
dialog: anything. You can ask anyone in town.
dialog: I've been nothing if not generous. I
dialog: want the best for everyone.
text: A long beat.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Mr. Bloom, why are you buying this
dialog: land? Some sort of midlife crisis?
dialog: Instead of buying a convertible, you
dialog: buy a town?
text: He looks at her, puzzled and surprised. No one has really
dialog: asked before.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Helping people makes me happy.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I'm not convinced you should be happy.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'm sorry. Have I offended you?
text: She finally turns to face him.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: No, you did exactly what you promised.
dialog: You came back. I was just expecting
dialog: you sooner.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SPECTRE - NIGHT
text: Young Jenny Hill watches barefoot Edward leave Spectre for
dialog: the first time.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. SHACK - DAY
dialog: Finally realizing who this woman is...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You're Beamen's daughter. Your last
dialog: name is different.
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: You married.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I was 18. He was 28. Turns out that
dialog: was a big difference.
text: Before he can say anything more...
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I won't be selling you this house,
dialog: Mr. Bloom.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I see. I thank you for your time.
text: A bit bewildered, Edward tips his hat to her as he leaves.
scene_heading: EXT/INT. SWAMP SHACK - DAY
text: Edward pulls the door shut behind him as he leaves, but it
text: breaks off in his hands. It's not the clean exit he was hoping
dialog: for.
text: Inside Jenny looks out, surprised and annoyed.
text: Edward tries to lift the door back on the hinges, but they
text: SNAP off. The door frame buckles and the whole shack CREAKS.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'm sorry.
text: He tries to lean the door against the frame, but it keeps
dialog: slipping.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: It's okay, just leave it.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I can get it. I can just...
text: He leans the door a different way. It holds for a beat then
text: falls in, SMASHING a small table.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Lord, I'm sorry I...
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Please. Go. Just go.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll...
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Go.
text: She's dead serious. Weighing the scales of chivalry, he
text: finally backs away. Turns and heads back towards his car.
text: We STAY ON Jenny, watching him go. She's furious, but there's
text: something more in her feelings for him. Something softer.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: Most men in that situation would
dialog: accept their failure and move on.
dialog: But Edward was not like most men.
scene_heading: EXT. SWAMP SHACK ROAD - ANOTHER DAY
text: With Karl the Giant's help, Edward unloads a brand new door
text: from a pickup truck.
scene_heading: EXT. SHACK - DAY
text: While Jenny watches, half-annoyed, half-amused, Edward tries
text: to set the door square. Karl pushes against the side of the
text: house until it fits.
scene_heading: INT. SHACK - ANOTHER DAY
text: Holding nails between his lips, Edward puts in new windows
text: himself. Jenny is making soup, laughing at the story he's
dialog: telling.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: As the months passed, he found more
dialog: and more things to fix, until the
text: shack no longer resembled itself.
scene_heading: EXT. SWAMP - ANOTHER DAY
text: Edward and Karl cut down a tree, letting in a flood of light.
text: Through the golden pollen hanging in the air, we RISE UP to
dialog: see the shack is now
scene_heading: THE LOVELY HOUSE
text: we saw before. It's tiny and white, with black shutters and
text: a steep roof. A white picket fence. In every detail it is
text: impossibly charming.
scene_heading: INT. JENNY'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Edward is screwing a hat rack into the wall in the foyer.
text: Jenny leans against the doorframe listening to his story.
text: And watching him with deepest affection.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Of course, the best part was creating
dialog: new material. By the time the twins
dialog: and I got to Havana, we had a whole
dialog: new routine worked out for them,
text: with just a ukulele and a harmonica.
text: Finished with his work, he takes his hat off the chair and
text: hangs it on the rack. Perfect.
text: A beat. A look between them. With that last job done, there's
dialog: no reason for him to be staying any longer.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I suppose I should...
text: He takes his hat off the rack.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: You can leave it there.
text: A beat. Does she really mean it?
text: She comes closer. Edward holds his ground. She takes his
text: hand, lifting his hat up to the peg. She's very close --
text: just a half-inch from kissing him when --
text: -- Edward gently holds her back.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: No.
text: She freezes, stunned and humiliated. She pulls away.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Don't. Don't be embarrassed. I should
dialog: never have let you think that...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I am in love with my wife.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: And from the moment I saw her until
dialog: the moment I die, she's the only
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Lucky girl.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'm sorry, Jenny. I am.
text: With that, he begins to leaves.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Wait! Edward!
text: She finds a pen and hastily signs the deed to the house.
text: Hands it to him. With a look, he thanks her. Then goes.
scene_heading: EXT. SPECTRE - MAGIC HOUR
text: Edward takes a final look at this perfect little town.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: One day, Edward Bloom left, and never
text: returned to the town he'd saved.
text: He climbs in his car and starts the engine.
scene_heading: EXT. JENNY HILL'S HOUSE - DAY TO NIGHT
text: As we watch, the swamp begins to overtake the house,
text: swallowing it in a tangle of vines and mossy branches.
text: Shoots burst up through the planks in the porch. Snakes
text: slither through the marsh.
text: Day becomes night.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
dialog: As for the girl, the common belief
dialog: was that she'd become a witch, and
dialog: crazy at that. She became something
dialog: of a legend herself.
text: We REVERSE to find FOUR KIDS looking in through the rusty
text: iron gate with flashlights. A beat, then they run away.
speaker_heading: JENNY (V.O.)
text: And the story ended where it began.
scene_heading: INT. JENNY HILL'S KITCHEN - PRESENT DAY
text: Will and Jenny are still sitting at her table, a pitcher of
text: iced tea between them.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Logically, you couldn't be the Witch,
dialog: because she was old back when he was
dialog: young.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: No, it's logical if you think like
dialog: your father. See, to him, there's
dialog: only two women: your mother and
dialog: everyone else.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You didn't become crazy.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: Well, therapy. And one day I realized
dialog: I was in love with a man who could
dialog: never love me back. I was living in
dialog: a fairy tale.
text: Will smiles to hear it called that.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: People aren't like they are in
dialog: stories. They hurt each other without
dialog: meaning to. They are kind and
text: unbelievably cruel at the same moment.
dialog: Like me, now. I'm not sure I should
dialog: have told you any of this.
text: Her composure is starting to break.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No, I wanted to know. I'm glad I
dialog: know.
text: A long beat, both staring at their iced tea. Jenny is working
text: herself into more of a state by not talking.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: I wanted to meet you for the longest
dialog: time. I did.
dialog: (a smile)
dialog: I envied you so much. The way Eddie
dialog: would talk about you when you were
dialog: at Missouri, that award you won.
dialog: Congratulations, incidentally. And
dialog: when you got the job at the A.P.,
dialog: everything, he was so proud of you.
dialog: I mean, that's the thing. Every moment
dialog: he loved you.
text: She's fighting tears, not the first ones she's shed over
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: And as brightly as the sun would
dialog: shine when he was with me, every
dialog: time he left it disappeared. I wanted
dialog: to be as important to him as you
dialog: were, and I was never going to be. I
dialog: was make-believe and his other life,
dialog: you, were real.
text: ANGLE ON Will, sorting through his swirling thoughts.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: You knew that, didn't you?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WILL'S CAR - DAY / DRIVING
text: Will skips through the stations on the radio, but ultimately
text: turns it off. He's trying to think.
scene_heading: EXT. BLOOM HOUSE - DUSK
text: Will walks up the front steps. There's a subtle change to
text: his expression, a dark cloud lifted. He unlocks the door.
scene_heading: INT. BLOOM HOUSE FOYER - DUSK
text: It's half-dark and quiet in the house, no talking, no TV.
text: Will sets his keys on the table.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DUSK
text: Will looks in. Empty.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Hello? Mom? Dad?
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DUSK
text: We follow Will, looking into his and Josephine's room. He
text: aims for the guest room at the end of the hall.
scene_heading: INT. GUEST ROOM - DUSK
text: Looking over his shoulder, we see his father's bed is empty.
text: The sheets are in a tangle on the floor.
text: A beat, then Will half-runs back down the hall. Back down
text: the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. FOYER - DUSK
text: Headed out, Will grabs his keys off the table. We LOOK RIGHT,
text: where the "MESSAGE" light blinks on the answering machine.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE - NIGHT
text: The hospital is so new, it's not even finished -- thick
text: plastic hangs from exposed framing. There's no one at the
text: information desk, so Will forges ahead.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Will reads a directory board, trying to decide the best place
text: to start. Then, behind him --
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE (O.S.)
dialog: Will!
text: He turns to see his wife at a payphone. She hangs up. She
dialog: was calling him.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Your father had a stroke. He's
dialog: upstairs with your mom and Dr.
dialog: Bennett.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Is he going to be okay?
text: A beat. How can she answer?
text: He half-smiles, realizing the idiocy of his question. Of
dialog: course his father's not going to be okay.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What I mean is, will he get back to
dialog: the way he was when...
text: She cuts him off --
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: No. He won't. I'm sorry.
text: And like that, it's done. We HOLD ON Will, reeling from the
dialog: news.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT
text: Edward sleeps peacefully, just an oxygen tube under his nose.
text: There are no beeping monitors, no blinking lights. It's
text: mercifully quiet.
text: Sandra squeezes Will's hand tightly. She's holding herself
dialog: together, but it's been a tough day.
text: Dr. Bennett has just gone through the details for the third
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I don't suppose one of us could stay
dialog: with him. In case he...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: In case he wakes up, one of us should
dialog: be there.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I'll stay. Why don't you go home
dialog: with Josephine and I'll stay tonight.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (to Dr. Bennett)
dialog: That's okay?
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: It's fine.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (to Will)
dialog: You'll call if...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I will. I'll call.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Mom, do you want some time with Dad?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Yes. Thank you.
text: A nod, then Will holds the door for Dr. Bennett and Josephine
text: as they leave. Sandra is alone in the room with her husband.
text: She neatens his hair. Holds his hand. As she kisses his
text: fingers, she tweaks her chin with them -- his signature move.
scene_heading: TRANSITION TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Sandra waits outside the women's restroom. Her face is a
text: study in strained composure -- acknowledging the inevitable
text: but refusing to surrender to it.
text: Josephine emerges.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I'm sorry. It seems every hour I
dialog: have to...
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I know. It was the same when I was
text: carrying Will. Like clockwork.
text: The two women start to walk, no hurry.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Do you like it, being pregnant?
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: I do.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I loved it. It sounds peculiar, but
dialog: I loved every minute of it. I did.
dialog: Eddie was travelling a lot, so he
dialog: was gone, but I felt like I always
dialog: had a piece of him with me. A little
text: part of his soul inside me. I could
text: feel it. It was alive and kicking.
text: Sandra has accidentally evoked a storm of emotion. She
text: struggles to keep it in check. Almost a whisper...
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I really miss that.
text: With a few breaths, Sandra tries to hold on. Hold back.
speaker_heading: JOSEPHINE
dialog: Don't stop. Don't.
text: A beat, then Sandra finally melts. Josephine holds her. The
text: two women stand together in the hallway, letting the moment
dialog: be.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT
text: Will sits in a chair beside the bed, working through the
text: crossword puzzle. A KNOCK as Dr. Bennett enters with his
text: overcoat and bag, ready to leave for the night.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Glad to see you're not trying to
dialog: have a heartfelt talk. It's one of
dialog: my greatest annoyances, when people
text: talk to those who can't hear them.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: My father and I have an advantage.
dialog: We never talk.
text: Dr. Bennett smiles as he checks Edward's chart.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: How long have you known my father?
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Thirty years. Maybe more.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: How would you describe him?
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: (re: chart)
dialog: Five-eleven. One-eighty. Regulated
dialog: hypertension.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: How would his son describe him?
text: Tables turned, Will searches for an answer. He doesn't have
dialog: one.
text: Dr. Bennett hangs the chart back on the bed.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Did your father ever tell you about
dialog: the day you were born?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: A thousand times. He caught an
text: uncatchable fish.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Not that one. The real story. Did he
dialog: ever tell you that?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (suddenly interested)
dialog: No.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Your mother came in about three in
text: the afternoon. Her neighbor drove
dialog: her, on account of your father was
dialog: on business in Wichita. You were
dialog: born a week early, but there were no
dialog: complications. It was a perfect
dialog: delivery. Now, your father was sorry
dialog: to miss it, but it wasn't the custom
dialog: for the men to be in the room for
dialog: deliveries then, so I can't see as
dialog: it would have been much different
dialog: had he been there. And that's the
dialog: real story of how you were born.
text: A long silence, just the sounds of the hospital, doctors
text: being paged.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Not very exciting, is it? And I
dialog: suppose if I had to choose between
text: the true version and an elaborate
text: one involving a fish and a wedding
dialog: ring, I might choose the fancy
dialog: version. But that's just me.
text: Will half-smiles.
text: Patting Will's shoulder, Dr. Bennett leaves. We STAY ON Will
text: and his father for a long time, then Will takes his pen and
text: starts making a list.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - VARIOUS SHOTS
text: Will flips to a new page. The list keeps getting longer.
text: He smiles, remembering something. On his fourth page, he
text: looks up at his motionless father. A beat, then we slowly
speaker_heading: CROSSFADE TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - PRE-DAWN
text: It's very early morning, and the first blue light of day is
text: glowing through the vertical blinds. Still in his chair,
text: Will wakes up a bit at a time. The notepad is on his lap,
text: the pen in his hand.
text: He cracks his neck, crooked from sleeping on it wrong. What
dialog: woke him up?
text: He looks to his right. Holds his gaze for a breath.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Dad?
text: His father is awake, silently GASPING for breath. His eyes
text: are open, scared and confused.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Dad! Do you want me to get a nurse?
text: Edward shakes his head unambiguously. Will already has his
text: finger on the orange "nurse call" button, but doesn't push
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What can I do? Can I help? Can I get
dialog: you something? Water?
text: Edward nods. Will pours a glass from the pitcher on the
text: nightstand. He holds it to his father's lips, but Edward
text: won't drink. He pushes it away. He wanted something else.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: The river.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: The river?
text: It takes Edward all his strength to put together each thought.
text: It's like he's only half-there, fighting to hang on to this
dialog: world.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Tell me how it happens.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: How what happens?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: How I go.
text: ON WILL, realizing...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You mean what you saw in The Eye?
text: Edward nods. Yes, that's what he was trying to say.
text: A long beat.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I don't know that story, Dad. You
dialog: never told me that one.
text: Will pushes his fingers under his father's heavy hand, and
text: holds it. There's nothing else to do.
text: Edward looks around, confused and increasingly scared. He
text: sees the end approaching, but doesn't know exactly what's
text: coming. Without the story, he's lost.
dialog: Fighting the urge to panic --
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I can try, Dad. If you help. Just
dialog: tell me how it starts.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Like this.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Okay. Okay.
text: Will looks around the room, increasingly desperate. He looks
text: to the nurse call button. He really wants to press it.
text: ON EDWARD, waiting for Will to begin.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Okay. It's morning, and you and I
dialog: are in the hospital. I'd fallen asleep
text: in the chair. I wake up and I see
dialog: you, and...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY [STORY VERSION]
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Dad?
text: It's dawn, and the first golden glow is shining through the
text: vertical blinds.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (louder and concerned)
dialog: Dad?
text: We LOOK OVER to find a nimble Edward sitting up in bed,
text: combing his hair.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Let's get out of here.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: Somehow, you're better. Different.
dialog: You're getting ready to go. And I
dialog: say...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Dad, you're in no condition to...
text: But Edward throws back the covers.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: There's a fold-up wheelchair in the
text: bathroom. Wrap a blanket around me.
dialog: As soon as we get off this floor,
dialog: we'll be in the clear.
text: Will heads for the bathroom. Sure enough, the wheelchair is
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Hurry! We don't have much time.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY
text: With the blanket draped over his head like a ghost, Edward
text: points for his son to steer the wheelchair thataway.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Faster!
text: They pass a HEAVYSET NURSE, who turns to look.
text: Rounding a corner, they nearly crash into Dr. Bennett.
scene_heading: DR. BENNETT
dialog: Will! I... What are you doing?
text: Before he can answer, Will spots Edward rolling the chair
text: himself, pumping both arms. Will dashes to catch up with
dialog: him.
text: The Heavyset Nurse leans out of Edward's hospital room.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Security! Stop them!
scene_heading: DOWN THE HALL
text: At the elevators, Sandra and Josephine step out to find Will
text: and Edward barreling straight at them.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: No time to explain! Follow us!
text: Seeing SECURITY GUARDS heading their way, a quick-thinking
text: Sandra shoves a nearby cart into them, bowling them down.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR - DAY
text: Will brakes hard, sliding with both feet. The chair nearly
text: crashes into the back wall as the doors close.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY
text: Will races Edward down the row, finally reaching the
dialog: Chevrolet.
speaker_heading: AT THE CAR
text: Will lifts his father out of the chair.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: I pick you up and you hardly weigh
dialog: anything. I can't explain it.
text: Will sets him in the passenger seat.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Water. I need water.
text: Scrambling in back, Will finds a liter of Arrowhead. Hands
text: it off. Edward unscrews the cap, but instead of drinking it,
text: he douses himself. Soaks the blanket.
text: Will pops the trunk. Starts to fold up the wheelchair.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Leave it! We won't need it.
text: TIRES SMOKE as the car peals out.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY [REALITY]
text: TIGHT ON Will, trying to hold back tears as he talks.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: And we have to take Glenville to
dialog: avoid all the church traffic, because
dialog: those damn church people drive too
dialog: slow.
text: TIGHT ON Edward, enjoying that detail. He's focused completely
text: on Will's story.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I ask...
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GLENVILLE BLVD. - DAY [STORY VERSION]
text: The Chevy slaloms through the Sunday-morning traffic.
speaker_heading: WILL (O.S.)
dialog: Where are we headed?
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: You say...
scene_heading: INT. CHEVY - DAY
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: The River!
text: Will stops short, the traffic backed up. He HONKS, trying to
dialog: get around the jam. But it's no use.
text: Then, up ahead, the cars start moving, shoved aside by massive
text: hands. It's Karl the Giant, clearing a path by brute force.
text: Edward leans out the window and waves. Karl waves back.
scene_heading: EXT. ASHTON RIVER - DAY
text: The same stretch of the river where it all began. A CROWD of
text: more than 100 waiting.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
text: As we get closer to the river, we
dialog: see everybody's already there. And I
dialog: mean everybody.
text: Amos Calloway is here with the circus folk, including Mr.
text: Soggybottom. We also find Edward's Mother and Father, the
text: Mayor, and many others from along the way. No one has aged a
dialog: day since we saw them last.
text: While Ping scans the horizon, Jing nuzzles with her boyfriend,
text: Norther Winslow. It's Ping who first spots the Chevrolet.
speaker_heading: PING
dialog: He's here!
text: The crowd CHEERS. The Ashton marching band PLAYS. Jenny Hill
text: smiles. So does the Old Woman.
text: We PUSH IN on the Old Woman's glass eye, where we see...
scene_heading: YOUNG EDWARD
dialog: reflected. This is what he saw.
scene_heading: INT. THE CHEVROLET - DAY
text: Amazed, Will turns to his father.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: It's unbelievable.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Story of my life.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVERSIDE - DAY
text: Will gets out of the Chevrolet, overwhelmed by the crowd.
text: Behind him, Sandra, Josephine and Dr. Bennett pull up. Karl
text: comes just after that.
text: Crossing to the passenger side, Will lifts his father out.
text: Strangely, he's gotten even lighter. Will carries him easily.
text: Edward pulls off his shoes, tying the laces together. He
text: hands them to Josephine. She throws them up at the powerline.
text: They loop over. APPLAUSE and CHEERS.
text: The crowd parts to let Will and Edward get to the river. As
text: he passes, Edward shakes some hands, pats some people on the
text: cheek, and gives others a good poke in the ribs.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: And the strange thing is, there's
dialog: not a sad face to be found. Everyone's
dialog: just so glad to see you, and send
dialog: you off right.
text: Will walks into the river, up to his knees. He turns back so
text: his father can face the crowd. Edward waves.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Goodbye everybody! Farewell! Adieu!
speaker_heading: THE CROWD (VARIOUS)
dialog: Goodbye Edward! / See ya! / We'll
dialog: miss you!
text: But one face is missing from the crowd -- Sandra. Will turns
text: to see she's already standing in the river beside them.
text: The reflection of the light off the water gives Sandra an
text: unearthly glow. She's more tranquil and more beautiful than
dialog: we've ever seen her.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: My girl in the river.
text: She kisses him. He tweaks her chin. The crowd HOLLERS in
text: approval, but their moment remains strangely private. Only
text: Will is there to witness.
text: As the kiss ends, Edward tries to pull off his wedding ring.
text: But it's stuck. Finally, he sucks on it, pulling it free
text: with his teeth.
text: A look to Will, a smile with a glint of gold. Will takes the
text: ring out of his mouth.
text: Edward suddenly drops out of Will's arms with a SPLASH. For
text: he's no longer a man, but rather
speaker_heading: A FAT CATFISH
text: swimming at his feet.
text: We watch as the catfish circles, then heads for deeper water,
dialog: disappearing.
text: Will and his mother stand knee-deep in the water, watching
text: Edward Bloom swim away into the sunlight. Josephine is back
text: on the shore, along with the entire crowd.
text: MUSIC BUILDS to a climax, then...
text: Down the river, a GIANT FISH suddenly jumps out of the water,
text: cutting a beautiful arc across the sunset. It then dives
text: back under with a SPLASH.
scene_heading: CROSSFADE BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
text: Will has tears hanging in the corners of his eyes.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You become what you always were. A
dialog: very big fish.
dialog: (he smiles)
dialog: And that's the way it happens.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (a whisper)
dialog: Yes. Exactly.
text: Edward smiles, proud of both of them. His eyes are so pale
text: and so open, we can almost see his soul. In every atom of
text: his body, in every thought, Edward Bloom is entirely happy.
dialog: And this is how he goes.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY
text: Will shuts the door to his father's room behind him. The
text: walk to the payphones seems to take a lifetime.
text: He finds a quarter, starts to dial. He has to squint to see
text: through the water in his eyes. It's ringing. And ringing.
text: The other end answers.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (voice cracking)
dialog: Hi.
text: That's all he can get out before the dam breaks inside him.
text: He presses closer to the phone, trying to shield himself.
text: MUSIC begins that will carry us through the next passage.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL RECEPTION - DAY
text: Will waits at reception as Sandra and Josephine come off the
dialog: elevator.
scene_heading: INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY
text: Josephine opens the curtains, letting white sunlight in. She
text: strips the bed.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - DAY
text: Will and his mother pick out one of Edward's ties, for Will
text: to wear at the funeral. Will tries to button the cuffs on
dialog: the shirt he borrowed, but they're the kind that need links.
text: He goes through the top drawer of the dresser, trying to
text: find a matching pair. Further down, he finds a ribbon tied
dialog: to
text: THE KEY TO THE CITY.
text: He smiles, disbelieving. It's a real thing.
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY / ROAD - DAY
text: Will helps his mother out of a black sedan. She's well-
dialog: composed, not nearly the wreck we might have expected.
text: Josephine hugs Dr. Bennett and shakes hands with his WIFE.
text: The service is crowded, more than 200 people, many more than
dialog: expected.
text: As his mother talks to a WELL-WISHER, Will looks left to see
text: an Oldsmobile parking.
text: CLOSE ON the license plates. Missouri.
text: The passenger side opens, but the man who steps out is barely
text: visible over the door. He shuts it to reveal himself to be
dialog: 70.
text: It's Amos Calloway. Will doesn't recognize him.
text: The Driver climbs out, a size 15 foot on the gravel. We TILT
dialog: UP to see this man is huge.
text: This man is KARL, now 55. He's not 12 feet tall, but at least
dialog: six-eight.
text: CLOSE ON Will, bewildered to see that this man really exists.
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY / GRAVESIDE - DAY
text: As the service gets ready to begin, Will guides his mother
text: to a seat near the grave.
text: Sitting beside Will, Josephine spots a stunning ASIAN WOMAN
text: (50) behind them. A beat later, an identical face with glasses
text: peers out -- the woman's twin sister.
text: It's PING and JING.
text: Josephine almost GASPS. She elbows Will, who turns to look.
text: From this angle the sisters seem conjoined, but then Jing
text: steps forward. They're really two separate people.
text: A sea of familiar faces, all of them aged through the years:
text: BEAMEN, NORTHER WINSLOW, the MAYOR, and ZACKY PRICE.
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY - DAY [LATER]
text: After the service, we see the crowd gathered in small groups.
text: By the LAUGHTER and hand gestures, we can see they're telling
text: stories. They're telling Edward's stories.
text: We find Will watching them.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: Have you ever heard a joke so many
dialog: times you've forgotten why it's funny?
dialog: But then you hear it again and
dialog: suddenly it's new. You remember why
dialog: you loved it in the first place.
text: Will joins in, laughing.
text: We slowly CIRCLE BEHIND a monument, letting it black out the
dialog: screen.
scene_heading: TRANSITION TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BLOOM HOUSE BACKYARD - DAY [SUMMER]
text: Will sits on the porch with Sandra and Josephine, watching
text: his SON play in the pool with two NEIGHBOR KIDS.
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: (to the other boys)
dialog: So he said he'd fight the giant who
dialog: was fifteen feet tall.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: No way.
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: (calling over)
dialog: Dad, that's right, isn't it?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Something like that.
speaker_heading: SON
dialog: See. So he was a giant but my grampa
dialog: was going to fight him because he
dialog: wasn't afraid of anything because
dialog: he'd seen how he was going to die in
dialog: this old lady's glass eye...
text: Will smiles as his son continues the tale, which FADES. Sandra
text: takes Will's hand in hers, just listening.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: That was my father's final joke I
text: guess. A man tells his stories so
dialog: many times he becomes the stories.
text: They live on after him.
speaker_heading: CROSSFADE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER / UNDERWATER - DAY
text: A fat and happy catfish swims towards us.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
text: And in that way, he becomes immortal.
text: The fish passes us with a SPLASH.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
