speaker_heading: BIRD BOX
dialog: Screenplay by
dialog: Eric Heisserer
dialog: Based on the novel by
dialog: Josh Malerman
dialog: March 10, 2014 draft
dialog: Chris Morgan / Scott Stuber / Universal Pictures
speaker_heading: OVER BLACK:
text: Two brisk hand CLAPS.
text: The sound of a woman’s voice.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (V.O.)
dialog: Listen to me carefully. Because I’m
dialog: only going to say this once.
speaker_heading: HARD OPEN ON
text: The face of MALORIE.
dialog: Late 20s, early 30s. No makeup. No hair products.
text: Stress waging war with exhaustion.
text: Around her, a dimly-lit living room.
text: Blankets cover the windows.
dialog: She speaks right to us:
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: We are going on a trip now. Taking
text: the rowboat down the river. It
dialog: could be a long trip. It could be
dialog: quick. But the important thing is
dialog: that you both do every single thing
dialog: I say. Understand?
speaker_heading: REVERSE ON
text: A BOY and a GIRL. Both four years old.
text: Underfed. Big, attentive eyes.
text: Wearing scarves around their necks. They nod.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
text: It’s cold now, but it will warm up
dialog: when the sun is high. You have your
dialog: blankets. Girl: You have your
dialog: puzzle pieces. There is nothing
dialog: more you need from here. Do you
dialog: understand me?
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Yes.
text: In the girl’s hand: three jigsaw pieces.
text: Her fingers toy with them absently.
text: They nod.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Under no circumstances will either
dialog: one of you remove your blindfolds.
dialog: If I find that you have, I will
dialog: hurt you. Do you understand?
dialog: Boy mutters:
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I need you both to listen as close
dialog: as you can. On the river. Listen
text: beyond the water, into the woods.
dialog: If you hear anything in those
dialog: woods, tell me. If you hear
dialog: something in the water, you tell
dialog: me. Understand?
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Don’t talk just to pass the time.
dialog: Girl, you will sit up front and
dialog: Boy, you'll be in the back. When we
dialog: get to the boat I will guide you to
dialog: your place. I will be rowing.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Do we need our bicycle bells?
text: Malorie’s eyes get wet. She holds it in.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: No. Not for this trip. Now, put
dialog: your folds on.
text: Boy and Girl work the blindfolds over their eyes.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Are they good and tight?
text: Boy gives her a thumbs-up.
dialog: So does Girl.
scene_heading: INT. FOYER - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie leads Boy and Girl.
text: She reaches the back door.
text: Boards cover the door’s glass inset.
text: Boy and Girl hold hands.
text: Girl’s knuckles go white.
text: Boy squeezes back.
text: On the floor by the door: A bird cage.
text: Inside: A little, fat budgie.
text: Malorie bends down, cups her hands...
text: And transfers the bird to a shoebox.
text: It coos at her as she covers the box and hefts it.
text: Malorie then picks up her blindfold.
text: Before donning it, she looks around.
text: Inside, all is quiet and still.
text: A land-line phone sits on the coffee table.
text: Nothing else around it. As if it were a holy relic.
text: Malorie secures her blindfold.
text: Reaches out and grips the door handle.
text: Takes a breath.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
text: Twenty, thirty-one, fifty-four.
text: Twenty, thirty-one, fifty-four.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Here we go.
text: With trembling hand, she opens the door.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - MORNING
text: TIGHT on Malorie’s face.
text: Advancing into the back yard.
text: Whispering under her breath.
text: TIGHT on Boy and Girl.
text: They form a train behind her.
text: Girl crooks her head left and right.
text: In the distance, a generator thrums.
text: Glimpses of: yellowed grass. Overcast sky. It’s cold.
text: Malorie steps carefully.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
text: Eighteen, nineteen... twenty.
text: Her hand reaches out to her right...
text: And finds a fence post.
text: She pivots and marches another direction.
text: Farther away from the house.
text: Slightly downhill.
text: Boy and Girl take note of this shift.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (whispered)
dialog: Left.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: (whispered)
dialog: Okay.
text: The three march on.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
text: Twenty-nine, thirty, thirty-one.
text: Malorie raises her hand...
text: And touches a tree branch.
text: She lets out a breath of relief.
text: And she changes direction once more.
dialog: Boy and Girl adapt.
text: The sound of the river creeps in.
text: Malorie quietly counts her steps.
text: Then: A sound. Rustling.
text: The sigh of foliage.
text: Boy’s ear perks.
text: He pauses.
text: It stops the train.
text: Boy and Girl turn their heads the same direction.
text: Beat. Listening.
text: Then, another rustle.
dialog: Back the way they came.
text: The budgie inside the shoebox CHIRPS.
text: Its wings scrape against the box lid.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Malorie.
text: Malorie tenses and starts them moving.
text: Faster now.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Forty-nine, fifty, fifty-one, fifty-
text: two, fifty three... fifty-four.
text: The sound of the river is close.
text: Malorie reaches out and down...
text: But her fingers grasp air.
text: No landmark here.
text: Malorie sweeps her arm around.
dialog: Still nothing.
text: Somewhere off to the right:
text: Leaves rustle. Closer. The budgie CHIRPS in distress.
text: Girl tugs at Malorie’s arm.
text: Malorie starts to hyperventilate.
text: She steps forward. Groping.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (sotto)
text: Fifty-five.
dialog: Rustle.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Pifty-six--
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Getting closer--
text: Her fingers stretch--
text: And touch the end of a ROWBOAT.
text: Malorie puts a foot in the boat and lifts Girl inside.
text: Then Boy. And follows them in.
text: The three push off, into the river’s flow.
text: As Malorie begins to row. A branch CRACKS nearby.
text: The oar dips into the water.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Malorie’s hand dips into soapy bath water. We’re now in:
scene_heading: INT. MALORIE’S BATHROOM - DAY
text: Malorie drains her tub after a bath. She’s wrapped a towel
text: around her head, partly dressed in bra and panties, so it’s
text: clear she is six months pregnant.
text: This is five years earlier. She looks radiant, bright-eyed,
text: and when she unwraps the towel, LONG HAIR flows out.
text: Malorie runs a hand over her baby bump. Questioning.
text: All by herself, naked both physically and emotionally, she
text: stares at her belly as if it were concerning news.
scene_heading: INT. MALORIE’S LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: A painting of a river hangs over a cheap fireplace. Nearby, a
text: TV plays a fashion reality program.
text: Malorie sits on the floor with her back against a faded sofa.
text: She’s dressed comfortably now, but made up.
scene_heading: FASHION HOST ON TV (0.S.)
dialog: And now it’s time to transform her
dialog: from ‘hot mess’ to ‘princess.’
text: Before Malorie: a baby shower gift in pretty wrapping paper.
text: Around it lay the paper remains of previously opened gifts.
text: She tears into the wrapping.
dialog: This baby shower gift is a wipe warmer. And a card.
text: WRITTEN INSIDE: “Better find a husband soon! xo Alison”
text: Malorie makes a noise with her teeth.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Alison, you bitch.
text: She clucks her tongue and logs the gift on a notepad.
text: Malorie sits up as someone enters her front door.
text: JESSICA, Malorie’s sister. A skinnier, fiercer version of
text: Malorie. Carrying groceries like they’re 500 pounds.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Holy fuck, the store was packed.
dialog: This thing is serious.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Turn to the news.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What channel?
text: Jessica carries the bags to the kitchen. Over her shoulder:
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Any of them.
text: SWITCHING CHANNELS, the TV lands on footage of two ambulances
text: at a park at night, loading bodies on stretchers.
speaker_heading: NEWS ANCHOR (V.O.)
dialog: And in Tula, a city south of
dialog: Moscow, last reports estimated a
dialog: death toll of twenty-one thousand.
dialog: It’s yet to be determined if this
text: is from an airborne pathogen, but
dialog: some liken the symptoms to a sudden
dialog: onset of psychotic behavior.
text: Malorie gets up and follows Jessica.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: Jessica unloads the bags. Malorie loiters nearby.
scene_heading: RUSSIAN OFFICIAL ON TV (0.S.)
dialog: --not that we know of, but somehow
text: it’s spreading at an alarming rate,
dialog: which is why we are being careful--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: It’s in Russia.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Try telling that to the soccer moms
dialog: fighting over the bottled water. I
dialog: don't want you going out there
dialog: until people remember to calm the
dialog: fuck down. Okay? Is Dad texting you
dialog: survivalist bullshit?
text: Jessica uncaps a beer bottle with her shirt, takes a swig.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I was in the bath. I have that OB
dialog: appointment, remember?
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Shit! Right. I can drive you.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Maybe we should postpone.
text: Jessica faces Malorie, who won’t make eye contact.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Hey. We talked about this. It’1l be
dialog: fine. You’re having this baby.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Yeah.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Of course.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: I was an accident, too. Ask mom.
text: Jessica goes back to stowing the groceries.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: But Dad never bailed on Mom.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Doesn’t matter. Moms are moms.
text: Malorie nods. Trying to buy into it.
speaker_heading: JESSICA (CONT'D)
dialog: How goes the Great Unwrapping?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: It goes. I don’t know what half
dialog: this stuff does. Alison got me
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Seriously? What?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (grin forming)
text: A wipe warmer.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: (laughs )
dialog: Perfect. You’1ll think of her every
dialog: time you wipe the kid’s ass. C’mon,
dialog: let’s get you to the doctor.
text: Jessica grabs her car keys and her purse from the counter.
speaker_heading: NEWS ANCHOR (0.S.)
dialog: --but the CDC has not found any
text: evidence of a contagion.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM
text: Jessica passes Malorie, on march for the front door, but
text: Malorie lingers a moment, captivated by something on TV.
text: ON SCREEN: low-quality dashboard camera footage of civilians
text: fleeing past the car in a downtown district. One of the
text: people running by wears a HOSPITAL GOWN.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL EXAM ROOM - DAY
text: Malorie sits on an exam table, wearing a HOSPITAL GOWN.
text: DR. SUE LAPHAM (40s, cheery) is dressed in a white coat over
text: her street clothes, and she gestures with her clipboard.
speaker_heading: DR. LAPHAM
dialog: Thanks for meeting here, by the
dialog: way. Another patient of mine is
dialog: about to pop. How have you been
dialog: feeling? Sleeping any better?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
text: Sleep is still rough. No one told
dialog: me how hard it would be to get
dialog: comfortable in this shape.
speaker_heading: DR. LAPHAM
dialog: You know my method? Couch cushions
dialog: on the bed. Here and here, so your
text: belly fits between them.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I’1l try that.
speaker_heading: DR. LAPHAM
dialog: You're due in twelve weeks, so
dialog: let's try some natural remedies for
dialog: the insomnia before I prescribe
dialog: anything.
dialog: (casually)
dialog: You have a name picked?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Not yet. Something about it... It
dialog: hasn't really clicked with me. You
dialog: know? The idea. Motherhood.
speaker_heading: DR. LAPHAM
dialog: That’s normal. It will pass.
text: Malorie smiles sadly and nods. While holding that smile:
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What if it doesn’t?
text: Dr. Lapham reads from her clipboard.
speaker_heading: DR. LAPHAM
dialog: Everything will change after the
dialog: baby’s born. Now, let’s talk about
dialog: the next trimester. Expect more
dialog: weight gain, but if it gets more
dialog: than forty pounds over where you
dialog: were before, call me.
text: CREEPING IN on Malorie as she listens to the doctor, and it
text: all plays out on her face: A silent war against encroaching
text: anxiety. She looks away. Takes a breath as Lapham continues:
speaker_heading: DR. LAPHAM (0.S.) (CONT’D)
dialog: Heartburn will be more common. You
dialog: might also deal with hemorrhoids,
dialog: discharge, bleeding, and varicose
dialog: veins, that’s all natural. Be aware
dialog: of Braxton Hicks contractions at
text: odd hours, like tremors before a
dialog: real quake...
text: The doctor's voice grows more and more distant as Malorie
dialog: struggles to keep it all together. And then--
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie vomits into the toilet bowl.
text: She cleans herself up at the sink and stares at herself in
text: the mirror. Her own bloodshot eyes stare back.
text: Malorie washes her face. Then goes to the towels to dry her
text: face and hands.
text: Nearby: A basket of reading material. Magazines. Pamphlets.
dialog: Flyers about parenthood, childbirth.
text: Malorie notices one. Picks it up.
text: The headline: “YOU HAVE A CHOICE. // Give your child to a
dialog: good home!”
text: An informational flyer on adoption.
text: Malorie considers something.
text: Then puts the flyer in her purse.
dialog: 11.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL - DAY
text: A cacophony of noise.
text: Malorie navigates a hallway, leaving Lapham’s office. A pair
text: of PARAMEDICS rush by the other way, wheeling a MAN with a
text: leg injury on a gurney.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL LOBBY
text: The commotion is louder here. Other PATIENTS waiting for
text: urgent care watch in horror at the scene playing out in the
dialog: corner of the room--
text: A WOMAN in a pricey jogging suit and glossy fingernails
text: shrills at two NURSES trying to close in on her--
text: As she SCREAMS non-words she digs her fingernails into her
text: right cheek and begins to tear into her flesh--
text: With her other hand she starts with the thin skin around her
text: eyelid and pulls--
text: And the NURSES go for her and blood gets everywhere and
text: Malorie hurries out the door amid the AD LIB SHOUTS--
scene_heading: EXT. HOSPITAL - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie gets to Jessica’s car in visitor parking. Shaking.
text: Jessica waits in the driver's seat, texting on her phone.
scene_heading: INT. JESSICA’S CAR
text: Jessica doesn’t look up from her phone as Malorie gets in.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: How'd it go? Still having a baby?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: It’s happening now.
text: This gets her attention.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: The baby?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: No, the-- whatever it is in Russia.
dialog: The thing that makes you go crazy?
dialog: I think it’s here.
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Doctor Lapham is crazy?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Can we get going please?
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Okay, number one, you gotta calm
dialog: down for me. And B--
text: Outside, an ambulance drives up, lights and sirens going, and
text: screeches to a halt at the door. The back of the ambulance
text: rocks violently from some struggle playing out inside.
text: Jessica notices, tosses her phone in her purse, throws it in
text: back, and starts the car.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT
text: Jessica’s car tears out just as two squad cars pull in.
scene_heading: INT. JESSICA’S CAR - DAY
text: Malorie holds her phone to her ear.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Who are you calling?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Mom and Dad.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: They'll be fine. Takes an act of
dialog: congress to get them out of their
dialog: house more than once a week.
text: Malorie listens with the phone to her ear.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Voicemail.
dialog: (to Jess)
text: It went to voicemail.
text: Jessica lets out a stiff breath, then changes lanes.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: We'll swing by. But I’m calling it
dialog: now: They're both fine.
text: At the next red light, they pull up alongside another car.
text: A YOUNG MAN drives with his pretty GIRLFRIEND.
dialog: 13.
text: He nods at Malorie. Malorie nods back. They’re strangers, but
dialog: just checking in with each other. It’s okay.
text: Then: A loud but distant CRACK. And a RUMBLE. Malorie looks
text: around -- it’s behind her.
text: Four blocks back and one or two over: A FIRECLOUD. Smoke
text: rising like black cellophane.
speaker_heading: JESSICA (CONT'D)
dialog: Damn. Seriously?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I don’t like this. Jess, can we
dialog: just go? Maybe we just drive.
text: In the adjacent car, Young Man with his panicked Girlfriend
text: does that: he looks at cross traffic, and runs the red light.
text: Other traffic screeches and veers, HONKING.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Jess-—
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: I’m not doing anything stupid.
dialog: You're pregnant.
text: The light turns green a moment later.
text: Jessica mashes the gas.
scene_heading: EXT. SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY
text: Upper middle class. Not mansions, but trying.
text: Jessica’s car navigates the streets amid sparse traffic.
text: The clouds are the color of fresh bruises. Distant thunder.
scene_heading: INT. JESSICA'S CAR
text: Jessica and Malorie take the ride in silence. Tense. Malorie
text: fidgets nervously.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Where is all the traffic?
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Okay you need to cool it because
dialog: you're starting to freak me out
dialog: now, okay? And we can’t both be
dialog: freaking out.
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Sorry.
text: A phone RINGS. Malorie looks down at her phone in her lap.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Is it Dad?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: It’s not my phone--
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: In back, in my purse--
text: It RINGS again. Malorie reaches back, into Jessica’s purse--
text: She opens the bag and digs for the phone as it RINGS--
text: Bent over, head down, Malorie finds the phone just as the
text: call screen switches to MISSED CALL and--
speaker_heading: JESSICA (0.S.) (CONT’D)
dialog: OH MY GOD what was that, did you
dialog: see that what was it?
text: Malorie brings the phone up front, frowning--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: See what?
text: Jessica’s body language and posture changes.
text: Her muscles are rigid. Hands wringing the wheel.
text: And her eyes flit constantly. Her voice cracks--
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Back there I mean what I saw--
text: Malorie presses the RETURN CALL on the phone and puts it to
text: her ear while talking to Jessica--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Okay, calm down, hey--
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: What I saw it was, it was--
text: Malorie looks back as she listens to RING on the other end of
dialog: the line--
speaker_heading: MALORIE’S POV:
text: A slight hill in the road prevents her from seeing anything
text: past the SUV half a block back, but it swerves violently--
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: JESSICA (CONT'D)
dialog: I don’t care now I don’t care
dialog: anymore--
text: And now the phone is RINGING in Malorie’s ear and a seat belt
text: alarm is BEEPING and somewhere a truck’s HORN is honking the
text: engine REVS as Jessica picks up speed all the while looking
dialog: right at Malorie--
speaker_heading: JESSICA (CONT'D)
dialog: We're all going to die.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Jess, what--
text: Malorie sees it a fraction before it happens:
text: Jessica has steered into oncoming traffic.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SUBURBAN STREET
text: A pickup truck SMASHES into the left front bumper--
text: BOTH VEHICLES crumple at the hood in an eruption of plastic,
text: metal, glass, and shredded rubber--
text: Airbags deploy like white mushroom clouds--
text: Jessica’s car spins away, momentum carrying it back to the
text: curb as the pickup limps into a parked car--
text: And then after the screech and crunch and terror:
text: Stillness. The car’s engine has died.
scene_heading: INT. JESSICA'S CAR
text: Malorie’s airbag deflates, revealing a breathless Malorie
text: dusted in white safety powder, trying to get her bearings.
text: She instinctively puts her hands to her belly.
text: Her seatbelt and the airbag saved them.
text: A hiss of air deflating nearby draws her attention to:
text: Jessica. Pushing her airbag out of the way. Only one arm is
text: working for her. The other one is bleeding profusely. A cut
text: over her forehead has bathed her face in blood.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Oh my god... Jess...
dialog: 16.
text: Jessica looks at her with the eyes of a feral creature.
text: She turns the ignition to start the car again. Her mouth
text: moves as if she’s speaking, but it’s soft as a prayer.
text: Malorie is in pure shock, and terrified by her sister.
text: She unbuckles the seatbelt and opens her car door to escape--
text: And Jessica grapples Malorie’s wrist, croaking a warning:
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: You stay in.
text: Malorie struggles to break free--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Let go, Jess, let go--
text: And wrenches away from her and out of the car.
scene_heading: EXT. SUBURBAN STREET
text: Malorie stumbles away to the sidewalk and looks back at
text: Jessica in shock.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What is wrong with you?!
speaker_heading: JESSICA
text: GET BACK IN GET BACK IN GET-—
text: And the SUV from down the block COLLIDES with the back of the
text: car, WIPING Jessica and the vehicle out of frame like a
text: runaway locomotive.
text: Malorie flinches in surprise.
text: But it doesn’t stop. Another CAR accelerates from down the
text: street, veering toward Malorie like a missile.
text: Malorie turns and starts to run.
text: Her inner ear still rings from the crash. She can’t move fast
text: at six months pregnant.
text: For six utterly agonizing seconds, she moves for a tree while
text: the car barrels down behind her, popping the curb at fifty
text: miles per hour, the driver LAUGHING at the wheel--
text: Malorie ducks behind the tree trunk JUST AS the car collides
dialog: with it behind her--
dialog: 17.
text: The front end WRAPPING around the trunk on either side of her
text: in a shuddering impact--
text: And the tree rains down a few hundred leaves on her in a
text: terrible aftershock to the one-note cry of the stuck HORN.
text: Malorie takes her hands down from her head, still holding her
dialog: breath.
text: The horn blares, mingling with the ringing in her ear.
text: Shell-shocked, she gets up and starts walking.
text: Anywhere. Away from the wreckage both behind her and on the
text: street, where her sister’s body is surely mangled inside.
text: Her hands shake involuntarily. She can’t quite breathe.
text: FOLLOWING with Malorie, that war with terror and anxiety
text: playing out on her face again.
text: A hand reaches for her, out of frame, touching her shoulder.
scene_heading: Malorie SCREAMS--
text: It’s a tall, sturdy-looking MAN who shows her his hands in a
text: gesture of peace. His name is TOM (late 30s, blue-collar
text: countenance, gentle eyes).
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Hey, hey. It’s okay.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But we need to get inside.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: My sister--
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Right now.
text: He holds out his hand. Malorie takes it.
text: And they start to run.
text: AHEAD: Another pack of people caught outside at the moment
text: also start to run, searching for a destination.
text: A surly MAN with a pedometer is among them. This Man is
text: DONALD (mid-40s, former hipster). Donald is the perpetual
dialog: critic who needs to be the smartest man in the room.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Don’t look back! Just keep facing
dialog: this way! Listen to me!
dialog: 18.
text: An Hispanic woman (LUCY, 20s, athletic clothes) crosses the
text: street ahead of Donald on a similar mission to find shelter.
dialog: Then we see where she’s going--
text: Three houses ahead, a well-dressed, middle-aged WOMAN (LYDIA)
text: gestures at them from her driveway.
speaker_heading: LYDIA
dialog: Hurry! It’s not safe out here!
text: Lucy is the first to her front door, where she meets Lydia’s
text: husband GREG (50s, worry lines on his face) in the threshold.
text: She steps in just as Donald gets there and tells Greg:
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Pull the curtains. Now.
dialog: Greg and Donald go inside--
text: Malorie moves as fast as she can at six months pregnant. Her
text: focus is on Lydia.
text: Lydia keeps stepping farther down the driveway as she ushers
text: people into her house, looking past Malorie, trying to shout
text: over the din of the stuck horn.
text: Then, Lydia’s body language changes.
text: Her posture gets rigid. She trembles as if struck by sudden
text: illness. Her eyes widen.
text: And her voice stops making words, and instead begins uttering
text: a sound out of tune from the blaring horn.
text: Lydia takes two steps and then runs directly into the street--
text: Just as a speeding CAR drives past and RAMS into Lydia,
text: yanking her over the hood and roof--
text: The crowd witnesses it in silent shock.
text: Greg appears at the door again. Sees his wife’s body.
text: And goes as if to run to her.
text: Donald grabs him and pulls him back, and soon more NEIGHBORS
text: rush in for him to obscure his view of her--
text: But Malorie. She can feel that question in her brain. That
text: primal curiosity.
text: She starts to turn her head and look back.
dialog: 
dialog: 19.
text: She nearly does when TOM puts a hand over that side of her
text: face and firmly grips her arm--
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: No you’re not. Come on.
text: He guides her for the house. From inside, Greg's voice can be
text: heard, arguing. Tom and Malorie cross the threshold, into--
scene_heading: INT. FOYER
text: The house. The same one as in the opener. Tom closes the door
text: behind him. They’re the last ones in.
text: Head count: eight or nine. Most of them catching their
text: breath, pacing, two of them silently crying from the trauma
text: of witnessing two deaths up close. Malorie watches as:
text: Donald pulls at the heavy curtains in the living room nearby.
speaker_heading: LUCY DONALD
dialog: What the fuck was that-- They’re all going crazy!
text: Greg can’t stop pacing. To no one in particular--
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: And did you see it? He came out of
dialog: nowhere and just ran her over? I
dialog: mean what is wrong with the drivers
dialog: out there I mean really?
dialog: (then)
dialog: I have to get his plates.
text: Greg moves for the door and immediately Lucy, Tom, and two
text: other MEN hold him back.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: It’s not safe right now.
dialog: Let’s just-- give it a while.
text: Malorie backs away from the door.
text: Outside, the horn still blares. Accompanied by a scream,
text: suddenly cut off. And then a distant GUNSHOT.
text: Malorie stares at the door the whole time. Crying in shock,
text: some part of her aware her sister is dead. Trembling.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Something was behind us.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Did you see it?
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: DONALD (0.S.)
dialog: Of course not.
text: Donald steps in from the living room.
speaker_heading: DONALD (CONT'D)
dialog: If she had, she would’ve lost her
dialog: mind, like the others.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: My sister saw it.
text: Another one of the group chimes in: FELIX (mid-20s, skinny,
text: leather jacket, a motorcycle helmet in one fist).
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: You're talking about the virus in
dialog: Europe?
text: Tom’s attention dances from Malorie back to Donald.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: That’s a bullshit story. It’s
dialog: living things from who-knows-where--
text: CHERYL (50s, busybody with “traditional values”) interjects:
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Like aliens?
text: Lucy chimes in aggressively. She’s the type of woman you'd
dialog: guess has five older brothers.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Oh come on, aliens?--
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: They discounted that, no airspace
dialog: has been invaded--
text: Another man wearing a fishing vest speaks up loudly, stepping
dialog: on Donald’s information. This is JASON.
speaker_heading: JASON
dialog: Give me a break now, really. A few
text: people get into a car accident and
dialog: now we’re making up monsters comin’
dialog: outta the woods. I don’t claim to
dialog: know what’s going on in some other
dialog: countries but I know not to fall
dialog: for any of that conspiracy crap--
dialog: (pointing at Don)
dialog: --and the rest o’you’1ll come around
text: once the adrenaline stops flowing.
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: DONALD JASON
dialog: (re: “that crap”) (salutes)
dialog: Yeah thanks for that. Now I’m leaving.
text: But Jason pauses, aware of the chaos and screams out front.
text: He decides better of it and steps back.
speaker_heading: JASON (CONT'D)
dialog: I‘’1l take the back door, just to
dialog: avoid that mess.
text: The others watch Jason march off for the rear of the house.
text: Somewhere beyond, a door slams shut a moment later.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Look, you can join Bold And Stupid
dialog: out the back but I’m telling you
dialog: this is very serious, so listen up.
dialog: People online were saying how just
dialog: witnessing one of those things out
dialog: there is enough to snap your brain--
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: What things?
text: More VOICES overlap again, everyone arguing different points
text: until Tom raises both hands up high and CLAPS.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Hey! Calm down. We can talk about
dialog: this like adults, and we’re out of
dialog: immediate danger. All right? We can
dialog: figure this out.
text: He says it with conviction, and in a moment gets the command
text: of the room. Malorie sees it happen, just like that-- they
text: don’t listen to Donald like they do with Tom. She sees Donald
text: reacting to it, too. Quietly affronted by the turn of tide.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: My parents are about a mile from
dialog: here, on Arbor. I need to get to
dialog: them. I need to go.
text: Greg is in denial, his voice cracking as he talks:
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: I have to check on Lydia--
text: The group gets hyper again and then Tom holds up a finger,
text: placing himself protectively at the door.
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Hold on. Let’s stay put until the
dialog: chaos dies down. What’s your name?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Greg.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: This is your house?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Me and Lydia.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: How many windows do you have on the
dialog: back side of the house?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Windows? Uh. Quite a few.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: (re-asserting)
dialog: Curtains?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Blinds-- why, what does this--
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Shit...
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: You two: What are your names?
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Felix.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Lucy.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Let’s go close some blinds. Try not
dialog: to look outside if you can help it.
dialog: And you--
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Don, yeah. I already did the front
dialog: side, so I’m just gonna stay here
dialog: if you don’t mind.
text: Tom leads Felix and Lucy away, toward the kitchen.
text: The rest of the group remains standing or sitting on the
text: bottom steps of the front stairs.
dialog: 23.
text: Donald looks up to the landing.
speaker_heading: DONALD (CONT'D)
dialog: Greg? How many floors is this?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Three.
speaker_heading: DONALD
text: A lot of windows.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Can you send your housekeeper up to
dialog: close them all up?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Housekeeper?
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: That girl Lucy, isn’t she--?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: I don’t know her.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Oh. Well. I live two doors down,
dialog: and we have heavy foliage blocking
dialog: our house. For privacy?
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Good for you.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: My husband and my son will be back
dialog: from Lansing pretty soon. So if you
dialog: want to relocate, I’m just saying.
text: Outside, among the chaos: a distant sound. Inhuman.
dialog: Otherworldly. No creature in wildlife sounds like it. The
text: noise reverberates through the house.
speaker_heading: DONALD
text: It isn’t safe to go outside. At all.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: How long do you think we’1ll have to
dialog: stay inside?
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: I don’t know. A couple of hours?
text: Malorie’s attention returns to the door. Her posture rigid
text: and tense. And her hand on her belly.
dialog: 24.
scene_heading: EXT. SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY
dialog: Five years later.
text: Ivy has snaked over an orphaned tricycle.
text: Rust cakes a car’s sideview mirror.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY
text: Malorie steadies herself on the row boat.
text: Girl turns her head toward Malorie.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: You stopped rowing.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Just taking a break. Keep
dialog: listening. No talking.
dialog: Beat. But because she’s four years old:
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: How much longer?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sigh)
text: A few hours.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: What is it like?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: I don’t know. It’s a safe place.
text: Protected with high walls. They say
dialog: there’s even a courtyard, so you
dialog: can walk around outside.
text: Girl asks it like it’s Santa Claus:
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Trees?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Trees.
dialog: (hardening)
dialog: Now if you refuse to keep quiet,
dialog: tell me the steps again. Tell me
dialog: the steps.
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: GIRL
text: Eighty-six, forty-four, thirty.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Boy. Landmarks.
speaker_heading: BOY
text: Statue. Bridge. Car. Stone.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Good. Now quiet. Listen.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (beat, sotto)
dialog: What’s a car?
text: Malorie realizes: They don’t know.
dialog: The children have never seen one.
dialog: Before she can explain--
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I hear something.
text: Girl straightens up.
text: Her ear perks along her scalp.
text: Malorie reaches out to the shoebox.
text: Inside: The flutter of tiny wings.
text: But otherwise silent.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Is it...
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I don’t know.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: I hear it, too.
text: And now Malorie does. A faint but rhythmic CLAPPING.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Can you tell where it’s from?
text: Neither child answers for a moment. Then:
speaker_heading: BOY
text: It's getting closer.
text: Malorie dips the oar back into the water--
dialog: 26.
text: It yanks in her hand, nearly slipping.
text: The current is fast.
text: And now we see what’s making the noise.
text: A sunken BOAT, its deck still partly surfaced. Part of a
text: human skeleton dangles from a cabin door. This vessel is too
text: big to navigate these shallow waters, and now it’s debris.
text: Malorie’s boat is on a collision course.
text: And none of them sees it coming.
text: Their blindness makes them eerily unguarded as--
text: The rowboat SMASHES into the shipwreck--
dialog: Lurching everyone and everything inside--
text: Malorie ballasts herself with the oar but--
text: A backpack tips overboard and then--
text: BOY falls off the back--
speaker_heading: BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: Malorie!
text: She felt it coming and snake-swift GRABS his leg through some
dialog: maternal instinct--
text: But hanging onto him starts to tip the boat over--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Boy!
text: And Boy flails and splashes--
text: And Malorie lies flat and drops her oar but refuses to let go
dialog: of the Boy's jacket--
text: The boat hits a shallow point, slowing abruptly--
text: Boy manages to get his hands on the boat again, coughing up
text: water, his breath pluming in the cold air--
text: Girl is quietly having a nervous breakdown, her hands on the
text: blindfold, ready to pull it off--
text: Malorie gets both hands around Boy--
text: Hefts him back into the boat, soaking wet, crying, bleeding--
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Malorie Malorie Malorie--
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Shh shh, I got you.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I’m cold.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
text: Girl: a dry blanket.
text: Girl still considers taking off her blindfold.
text: Breathing quickly.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Blanket.
text: Girl reaches around in the boat.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: I can’t find the pack. Just the
text: food bag.
text: Malorie searches, too. Realizes it’s gone.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Okay.
text: She pulls a thin, folded blanket from under her, what she’d
text: been using as a cushion, and drapes it over herself and Boy,
text: creating a little cocoon in the boat. The blanket is soaked
text: from the collision. It’s useless to dry the Boy.
text: With the blanket fully covering both the boy and her ina
text: makeshift fort, Malorie pulls off her blindfold.
text: Boy is shivering uncontrollably. Hypothermia.
text: His forehead is bruised.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: What do I do?
text: Boy tugs at his blindfold.
text: Peers up at Malorie with one teary eye.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: You need to dry off and warm up.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: B-blankets?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: We lost the rest, and this is too
dialog: wet. So I’m going to get some more
dialog: and bring them back. Okay?
dialog: 28.
text: Boy nods.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
text: Cover up. Fort goes away.
text: He adjusts his blindfold.
text: Malorie dons her blindfold, too.
text: She lifts the blanket off and slaps it to the boat’s floor.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Are we going back? What are we
dialog: doing, are we going home?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Shh. Listen. I have to get some
dialog: blankets. Should be in a house
dialog: nearby. I won’t be long.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: You're leaving us?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Sit back-to-back. Listen closely.
dialog: The bird stays with you.
text: Malorie shoves the row boat with her one remaining oar until
text: it wedges against the shore.
text: She then takes the soaked blanket.
text: And very gingerly steps out of the boat.
text: Boy’s teeth rattle and he makes a noise when he exhales.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Shh.
text: Boy screws up his face, mustering courage.
text: Two steps into the woods, Malorie stops.
text: Reaches out. Finds a branch.
text: On her belt: a reel of fishing wire.
text: Weighted at the end with a sinker.
text: Malorie loops the end around the base of the branch.
text: Tugs at it. It’s solid.
text: She ventures into the trees.
text: The fishing wire unspools as she goes.
text: Pointing her back to the boat.
dialog: 29.
text: The reel makes a sound; soft clicking.
text: Girl and Boy listen to it recede.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - DAY
text: Malorie moves with one arm out in front of her face and
text: another panning left and right.
text: She walks quickly, even blind.
text: She finds a tree, then navigates around it.
text: The reel clicks softly at her belt.
text: A rustling sound.
text: Malorie freezes. Holds her breath.
text: Then the sound of flapping wings, overhead. Birds.
text: Malorie breathes again. Visibly relieved.
text: She marches on.
text: Distantly: tiny bell-song from a wind chime.
text: That suggests a back porch. A house.
text: Another half dozen steps puts her into a clearing.
text: Her foot nudges something.
text: She crouches down. Feels.
text: Stands up clutching a metal rod.
text: Her hands work their way up the metal-- it’s long.
text: She finds the end: A net.
dialog: This is a pool cleaner.
text: Malorie holds one end and reaches out to thump the ground
text: ahead of her, in an arc.
text: Soft thump... Soft thump... Concrete.
text: Malorie advances in that direction.
text: Ahead of her: A dilapidated two-story HOUSE.
text: With a backyard pool, now scummy with algae.
text: The cleaner dips into the green water. Splashes.
text: Malorie course corrects to walk around it.
scene_heading: EXT. ROWBOAT - DAY
text: Boy is trembling so much, it agitates the budgie in the
text: shoebox. Its wings flutter under the lid.
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Hush.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Please. Talk to me.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Tell me something she would say.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Don’t click your teeth.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: What if she doesn’t come back?
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: She always comes back.
text: But Girl’s voice cracks when she speaks.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: What if she doesn’t?
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED HOUSE - DAY
text: Sunlight pours in from bay windows, illuminating dust in the
text: stale air inside.
text: The back door vibrates with a loud thump. Again.
text: And then it’s forcibly kicked in by Malorie.
text: She steps inside. Tense.
text: All is quiet. It’s a five-bedroom mausoleum.
text: Malorie finds a chair. And a table.
text: It’s a breakfast table.
text: Nearby: A counter. The kitchen.
text: She takes a step deeper into the house--
text: And the fishing wire goes taut. End of the line.
text: Malorie curses to herself.
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie ties the reel to a table leg.
dialog: 31.
text: She unfurls the wet blanket, drapes it over herself.
text: Under the sopping covers, she removes her blindfold.
speaker_heading: HER POV:
text: A very narrow world. Blanket, her feet, and some of the tile
text: floor around her.
text: Just enough to navigate by.
speaker_heading: WIDER ANGLE
text: With the sunlight on her back, Malorie delves into the house.
scene_heading: EXT. ROWBOAT - DAY
text: Boy’s sounds of agony are getting louder.
text: Girl rocks back and forth, hugging herself.
text: From the woods: Branches break.
text: Boy instantly goes quiet.
text: Girl grabs the oar.
text: Both sit up like rabbits, listening for a predator.
text: More branches crack.
text: The sound bounces around the forest.
text: No way to tell if it’s near or far.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Is it her?
dialog: It isn’t.
text: From the shoebox: two nervous CHIRPS.
text: The bird cannot see out the holes cut in the box, but it’s
text: clear the budgie senses something.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS BATHROOM - DAY
text: Free of the blanket and blindfold, Malorie grabs a set of
text: bath towels off a rack. Shoves them into a duffel bag.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie opens dresser drawers, looking for clothing.
text: Checks the tags on t-shirts. Takes one.
dialog: 32.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM CLOSET - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie rifles through clothes on racks.
text: Finds a heavy coat. Too big. But better than nothing.
text: Ready to go, she dons a clean, dry beach towel.
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER
text: Returning to the kitchen. A noise stops her cold:
text: The sound of the table being dragged across the floor.
dialog: 
text: The fishing wire has caught on something.
text: Something big enough to move the table.
speaker_heading: HER POV:
text: Straight ahead, staring at the fabric of the towel, all that
text: filters through is a vague rectangle of sunlight.
text: And then a shadow passes in front of it.
text: Large. Devouring the gauzy sunlight.
text: Malorie goes rigid with fear.
text: Slowly, she reaches up and puts on her blindfold.
speaker_heading: WIDER ANGLE
text: The beach towel slides off her back.
text: She's gripping the scissors in one hand.
text: Moves. Very. Cautiously. For the door.
text: The table is jammed against it.
text: Her hand finds the reel tied to the leg.
text: The fishing wire is still taut. Straining.
text: Poised to snap at any moment.
text: Something splashes heavily, outside.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK LAWN
text: Malorie stays low, following the line.
text: Listening intently.
text: Something is near. In the pool.
text: What isn’t heard: breathing noises. It’s unsettling.
dialog: 33.
text: Malorie’s hand follows the fishing line.
text: Her foot steps on the pool net she dropped before.
text: Off to her right, more water sounds.
text: Something emerging from the pool.
dialog: Malorie does something very risky:
text: She runs while blindfolded.
scene_heading: INT. WOODS - MOMENTS LATER
text: Thin tree branches lash her as she runs through.
text: Then, she trips on something and falls hard. Scrapes her arm.
text: When she gets up, she reaches out, searching, finding:
text: A CORPSE of a woman. Mostly decayed. But higher up--
text: The fishing line. She’s back on track.
scene_heading: EXT. ROWBOAT - DAY
text: Boy and Girl huddle together, shivering.
text: Malorie emerges from the trees--
text: Girl grabs the oar again, threatening:
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Stay away!
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: It’s me, Girl. It’s me.
text: Malorie finds the boat and climbs on board.
text: Boy and Girl cling to her. Hugging tightly.
text: Malorie embraces them both.
text: Beat. Then, sniffling:
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Will we make it now?
text: Boy tilts his head up at her.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Will we ever make it?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Of course we will.
dialog: 34.
text: She says it sternly. But her head is turned away. Like she’s
dialog: asked that question for years, every day.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - MORNING
text: Five years ago. An ‘X’ is drawn in a square.
text: Long-haired Malorie crosses through a July date on a wall
text: calendar, matching a week of Xs prior.
text: She's at the counter separating the kitchen from the living
text: and dining area of the house. She flips the calendar to
text: September to note the 28th circled and labeled: “DUE DATE.”
text: Behind her, the living room is busy with the captive members.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: Greg stares at an empty cabinet.
text: Other cabinet doors hang open, revealing stacks of plateware
text: here and there, and lots of empty space. A rare can of food.
text: Felix crunches on cereal right out of the box at the island.
text: Standing and eating like a bachelor.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Is that Choco-Burst?
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Yeah man. If anything has my name
dialog: on it, it’s this. Why do you even
dialog: have this stuff?
text: Gesturing at the box with the cartoon character on its cover.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: It’s my nephew's favorite.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: (mouth full)
dialog: He has good taste.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: (judgmental)
dialog: He’s ten.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Tom nods at Greg as he approaches. Waiting for the answer.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: We're out of perishables. And all
dialog: that’s left to drink is well water.
dialog: You might have to make another trip
dialog: to Cheryl’s house and grab anything
dialog: else there to eat.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: We did that already. And the two
text: houses on either side.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: We need a real solution here...
text: As they continue, we drift to find Lucy playing solitaire at
text: the coffee table. Her leg bounces.
text: Cheryl rearranges the throw pillows on the couch, making idle
text: chatter with Lucy whether Lucy wants to or not.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: And if I hadn’t been out to check
dialog: the mail, who knows where I'd be.
dialog: What were you doing around here?
text: Lucy tries not to take it as a racist question.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: I live a mile from here. I’m in
dialog: graduate studies.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Oh? Maybe you know Felix, I hear
dialog: he’s a recent grad.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Pshh. No.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: What are you studying?
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Fitness and nutrition. So basically
dialog: I’m screwed. Nobody’s gonna be
dialog: counting calories anymore.
text: Cheryl moves a chair and sits at eye level with Lucy.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: This is temporary. When we get out
dialog: of this, I’m going to have you help
text: Bobby with his candy addiction.
dialog: (at Donald)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: CHERYL (CONT'D)
dialog: Have they said anything about
dialog: Lansing?
text: Donald holds up a finger at Cheryl: hold on. He sits near a
text: stereo system tuned to a talk radio station.
text: Felix returns from the kitchen and joins him.
speaker_heading: DEEJAY (V.O.)
dialog: ...would then move north from Ann
dialog: Arbor securing smaller cities as
dialog: they go, starting with Brighton,
dialog: July 27. Fenton, July 30.
dialog: Waterford, August 10. Flint, August
dialog: 17. Riverbridge, September 3.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: There it is.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Maybe.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Malorie, circle September third.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: National Guard?
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Yeah.
text: Malorie-- still at the wall calendar-- circles the date. Then
text: writes the word “RESCUE” on the date.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Allegedly.
text: Lucy stands up and rolls her shoulders like a boxer before a
text: fight. Nervous energy.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: September? Fuck, that’s over a
dialog: month away.
text: Cheryl gives Lucy a disapproving look. Lucy ignores her.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: We'll run out of toilet paper
dialog: sooner than that.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: We've already cleaned out the
dialog: kitchen. Some of us don’t
dialog: understand rationing, either.
dialog: 37.
text: Malorie joins in, having overheard Greg and Tom nearby.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
text: Tom is talking about a supply run.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: The radio said to stay inside.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Stuff won’t magically come to us.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Somebody must deliver out here.
dialog: (off everyone’s looks)
dialog: I mean, right? ...What?
text: Felix is first to crack a laugh. It gets everyone giggling.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Cheryl. Nobody delivers anymore.
text: The doorbell rings.
text: Everyone tenses. Exchanges looks.
text: Greg and Tom break from their talk and join the group.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Was that...?
text: The doorbell rings again. Nobody moves.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Well is someone gonna get that?
text: She goes for the door.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Is that safe?
text: Lucy stops at the door. Hand on the knob.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: You think it’s one of those things?
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: (oh come on)
dialog: Ringing the doorbell? Like they’re
dialog: selling cookies?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (0.S.)
dialog: (muted)
text: Nobody's answering.
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Who’s there?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (0.S.)
dialog: Oh thank god. Hi? My name is
dialog: Olympia. Can we come in?
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: What are you doing out there?
text: Greg marches for the door--
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Oh for god's sake, let her in.
text: But Tom advances, grabbing a blanket from the back of the
dialog: sofa on his way--
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Wait, hang on.
dialog: (through door)
dialog: I’m going to open the door just a
dialog: little and hand you a blanket. There
text: are two porch lamps on either side
dialog: of the door, you need to hang this
dialog: on ‘em to block the view, okay?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (0.S.)
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: (to room)
dialog: Look away.
text: They obey, as Tom opens the door a crack and tosses the
text: blanket outside, then closes it again.
text: A moment later, after some shuffling outside:
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (0.S.)
dialog: Okay? I think it’s up now.
text: Tom opens the door just a crack and peers outside. Through
text: the narrow view of the front porch:
text: A woman. Blonde, put together. Carrying a Hello Kitty travel
text: bag full of clothes. A timid 30 going on Sweet 16. A scarf
text: hides her face. She pulls it up and blinks at Tom.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (CONT’D)
dialog: Hi.
text: Tom opens the door for her and she steps in.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (CONT’D)
dialog: Oh wow, there are a lot of you.
text: She sets her bag down, revealing her round belly under her
text: dress. She’s pregnant.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: You're... uh.
text: Olympia nods, caressing her bump.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Due September 20.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Wow, you two are a week apart.
text: Malorie and Olympia make eye contact.
text: Malorie instantly dislikes her.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Where did you come from?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: My husband is in the Air Force, he
dialog: was deployed last month, so I was
dialog: staying at a friend’s down the
dialog: block the day everybody started
text: freaking out. She went out to get
dialog: groceries, uh, that was two days
dialog: ago. So I went outside, and--
text: Tom starts to shut the door when a HAND pushes back, keeping
text: the door open.
text: In steps EDGAR: 60s, weathered and scarred, facial hair, a
text: war veteran’s thousand-yard stare. Dressed for mountain
text: hiking. Wearing dark shades.
text: He plants his feet next to Olympia and takes off his shades.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (CONT’D)
dialog: .»--and I ran into Edgar.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: What were you doing outside?
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Is it safe to go out?
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Don’t be stupid.
text: Felix looks to the others: What the hell?
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: EDGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: You listen to me, and listen good.
dialog: There are at least two of those
text: things out there. Maybe more.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Are they hostile?
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: They don’t have to be. Looks like
dialog: you all got a good thing here. Keep
dialog: it that way. Stay the hell inside.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: How do you expect us to get
dialog: resupplied?
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: With your eyes closed. Nearest
dialog: store is the Super Target, five
text: blocks south, two blocks west. Had
dialog: plenty of food as of Tuesday. Find
dialog: the curb, follow it. And keep your
dialog: goddamn eyes shut. Who’s the owner?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: I am.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: You got an attic?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Yes. It’s uh, we made it a game
dialog: room for my nieces--
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Whatever. That’s where I’1l be.
text: Edgar starts up the stairs. Donald calls out:
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Hang on, old man. You talk like you
dialog: dealt with those things out there.
text: Edgar levels his glare at Donald.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: You don’t “deal” with ‘em, you
dialog: avoid ‘em.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: What the hell are they?
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Devils. Monsters. Spirits. Take
dialog: your goddamn pick.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Which is it?
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Doesn’t matter.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: So you don’t know anything, really.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: That's how they get you. They wait
dialog: around for you to get curious. They
dialog: don’t gotta lift a finger to kill
dialog: us off. Our need to know will do it
dialog: for ‘em.
text: With that, Edgar disappears upstairs. The room listens to his
text: footfalls all the way up to the attic floor, until a door
text: slams shut.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Um. Do you have any food?
text: Everyone returns to the immediate problem.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: A Scrabble boardgame sits on the coffee table and Tom shakes
text: a velvet bag in his hands. The contents click like plastic
text: pieces rattling together.
text: The rest of the group is gathered around Tom.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: We need to get enough supplies to
dialog: last to September three. That’s all
dialog: we gotta do. National Guard rescue
dialog: day. I’1l volunteer to go but I
dialog: figure we need at least four to
dialog: make it quick and safe.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Tom, you’re a nice guy, but I don’t
dialog: think anyone else is gonna
dialog: volunteer to go out there.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: That’s what the tiles are for. Draw
dialog: a letter ‘E’ and you’re exempt.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
dialog: But there are three ‘S’ tiles. Draw
dialog: one of those, and you’re going
dialog: shopping with me. All right?
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: So it’s just random?
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: That makes it fair.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: I’m never good at these games.
text: Tom holds out the bag for Cheryl to draw first.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Go on.
text: Cheryl reluctantly reaches in... Pulls out a tile. Reads it.
text: Lets out a breath. It’s an ‘E’.
text: Tom faces Donald next. Donald reaches in. Pulls out with his
text: hand in a fist.
text: Opens his palm: another ‘E’ tile.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Exempt.
text: Tom offers the bag to Lucy.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: You next.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Fine.
text: Lucy reaches in. Pulls out a tile trapped between two
text: fingers. Angles it so she can see:
text: Another ‘E’ tile.
text: Tom shakes the bag and offers it to Olympia next.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: I have to do this too? I was just
dialog: out there.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: We're all in this together.
text: Olympia looks from face to face, searching for sympathy.
text: Finding none, she draws a tile.
dialog: 43.
text: In her palm: an ‘S’ tile.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: This isn’t right.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: It’s the only way to be fair.
text: Donald speaks like someone already exempt.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Since no one’s gonna be the
dialog: gentleman, I’1l do it. Here.
text: Lucy takes Olympia’s tile and gives her the exempt one.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Can you do that?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I don’t see why not.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS:
text: 1) Greg draws an ‘E’ and lets out a breath.
text: 2) Felix draws an ‘S’ tile.
speaker_heading: TOM (V.0.)
dialog: Just one more now.
text: 3) Edgar throws a tile on the table and stomps off.
text: 4) The tile on the table: another ‘E’. Exempt.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON MALORIE
text: The last one to draw.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Well. I guess we know.
text: Tom upturns the bag and the remaining ‘S’ clatters.
text: She looks around the room, hoping for a volunteer trade.
text: The other exempt members don’t dare meet her look.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Sorry, Malorie.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: What I want to know is how you plan
text: on making the trip.
text: Tom grins, ready for this one.
dialog: 44,
scene_heading: INT. GARAGE - DAY
text: ANGLE ON A CAR: A Cadillac. Upper-middle-class luxury. But
text: American. The product of living close to Detroit.
text: Tom climbs in. Others from the group spill into the garage,
text: trying to figure it out.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: You're gonna drive there?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: It’s faster. Easy to stay together.
dialog: And it’s safer.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: How is it safer to drive blind?
text: Tom starts up the car.
text: The in-dash GPS navigator boots up.
text: Tom smiles.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: We're not blind.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS:
text: - Tom cuts up a cardboard box with a pair of scissors.
text: - Black electrician’s tape spreads over the windshield.
text: - The top of a pillowcase catches as a window seals up.
text: - More tape secures the pillowcase to the window.
text: - Tom removes the rearview mirror with a wrench, to remove
text: any tape-gaps in the windshield.
scene_heading: INT. GARAGE - DAY
text: Tom's last flourish: taping over the tiny camera above the
text: license plate on the back.
text: Tom stands with his arms crossed, nodding at his work.
text: Lucy, Malorie, Donald and Greg all stand with him.
text: The Cadillac looks like a makeshift meth lab.
text: Every window is blacked out with cardboard, tape, and linen.
text: Lucy checks it out more closely.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: It's like a car for vampires.
dialog: (grins at Tom)
dialog: Cool.
dialog: 45.
text: Tom opens the driver’s door, climbs in, and starts the
text: engine. The Cadillac thrums to life.
text: The interior glows from the light of the electronics.
scene_heading: INT. CADILLAC - LATER
text: Still idling in the garage, driver door ajar.
text: Tom sits at the wheel. Malorie sits shotgun. In back: Lucy
text: and Felix. Lucy carries a golf club with her, and Felix has
text: armed himself with a hand-axe.
text: Greg hands Tom a sticky note from outside Tom’s door.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: I made a list, going by your math.
dialog: Get as much as you can.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Will do.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: The store address is eleven oh one
text: Longview Street.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Already in the system. Now get
text: inside, and I’1l raise the door.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Okay. I... Good luck.
text: Tom nods and shuts the car door. The interior feels more like
text: a submarine, lit by the dome light.
text: Malorie pulls out a slip of paper. Considers it.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Tom...
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: What do you have there?
text: She holds it out for him.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: This is where my parents live. I
dialog: was going to check on them--
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Malorie--
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: --and I just, I haven’t heard from
dialog: them and I know it’s out of the way
dialog: but I just need to know. I’m sorry--
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Hey, hey.
text: He takes her hand with the note and closes her fingers over
text: it. Tom isn’t taking the address. He’s having her keep it.
text: But he’s being tender with her about it.
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
dialog: I get it. I do. We all want to know
dialog: about someone. But we have to get
dialog: used to not knowing. Or else we
dialog: won't make it. Okay?
text: Malorie takes a ragged breath and nods.
text: Tom reaches up and presses a button on a remote. Click!
text: The group listens to the sound of the garage door opening.
text: Tom touches the navigation screen.
speaker_heading: FEMALE GPS VOICE (V.0.)
text: Calculating route.
text: A map appears, with a thick red line forming an L-shape along
dialog: the streets.
text: Tom puts the car in reverse.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: The rear bumper advances at us, reverse lights aglow.
scene_heading: INT. GREG’S HOUSE - DAY
text: Cheryl begins searching in drawers by the entertainment
text: center, tidying up as she goes.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: So, are all of you, like, friends
dialog: and family?
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: We didn’t know each other before
dialog: last week.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: That must be weird.
dialog: 47.
text: Cheryl chortles and nods like, “You have no idea.”
text: Greg notices her peeking in drawers.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: What are you looking for?
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: This.
text: She holds up a PHONE BOOK. Stonebridge is small enough it’s a
dialog: combo white pages/yellow pages.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: What, as kindling?
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: You all laughed at me about
dialog: delivery, but I bet I can find
dialog: someone who will, mm-hmn.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: (to Olympia)
dialog: Olympia, was it? What is it like
dialog: out there? Were you attacked?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Do you know what those things are?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Just that when you see one, you go
dialog: crazy. So, they’re bad.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: But is it just seeing one face-to-
dialog: face? What about through a camera?
dialog: Or video footage? How big are they?
dialog: Why are they out there?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: I was hoping you guys had some
dialog: information.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Just the radio. Local DJ. The big
dialog: stations dropped three days ago.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: I have an idea.
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: The bed in this room tells a tale.
text: One half is turned down sloppily. The other half is a shrine.
text: Pillows under the covers suggest a body. Atop the bedspread,
text: Lydia’s nightgown has been draped. And on a pillow at the
text: head rests a framed PHOTO of Lydia.
text: Greg stands at a small TV on a dresser. Holding a remote.
text: Donald, Cheryl, and Olympia are gathered at the door.
speaker_heading: GREG
text: Home security system. Two cameras,
text: in front and back. It’s wired
text: through this TV. The image is
text: thermographic, so it can pick up
text: heat signatures at night.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Greg, hang on.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: The system stores the last twenty-
dialog: four hours of footage. This is a
text: digitized signal, showing just the
dialog: temperatures of objects. It’s
text: neutered information. Colors on a
text: flat screen. Harmless.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: We don’t know that.
text: Greg takes a breath.
speaker_heading: GREG
text: Lydia saw one. She must have. It
dialog: killed her. So, if I can track them
dialog: like this, just looking at a few
text: thousand pixels of light, then...
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Then what?
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: I’m getting some thermographic
dialog: goggles, and a gun, and I’m going
dialog: to kill every last one of them.
text: Donald steps back a bit. Watches Greg. Cheryl speaks up:
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Or maybe we let the army do that.
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: That’s what Tom said. He said it
dialog: wasn’t worth the risk. Are we doing
dialog: just what Tom says now?
text: Beat. Donald pricks at this. Greg looks at Donald as if
dialog: expecting it to.
speaker_heading: DONALD
text: Tom doesn’t get to make that call.
dialog: You do. Here is what we should do.
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER
text: Greg is tied to a chair with extension cord. Donald tugs at
text: the ones around Greg’s torso. Tightening.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Double knots on the back?
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Yeah. You sure this is the
dialog: sturdiest chair in the house?
text: Greg's arms are strapped to the chair’s arms. But he has
text: control of the remote.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: Yes. Loosen the wrist a bit so I
dialog: can use the clicker.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Okay. Remember you can just turn
dialog: off the TV, at any time.
speaker_heading: GREG
dialog: I’1l call for you when I’m done.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: We'll be nearby. Okay?
text: Donald pats Greg on the shoulder and leaves the room.
text: Greg stares at the TV screen.
text: It shows bluish coverage of the front and back of the house.
text: In the upper corner, a label: “REPLAY MODE.”
text: The screen flickers.
scene_heading: INT. CADILLAC - DAY
text: The GPS screen flickers, points Tom straight ahead.
dialog: 50.
text: Tom drives. Malorie watches the map closely. The arrow.
text: The map goes away, replaced with a diagram of the car, alerts
text: flashing at the front right bumper.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What’s that?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Proximity sensor.
text: Tom steers around it.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Probably a parked car. Yeah. Gonna
text: be cars up and down.
text: The Cadillac's left tires brush against something. Curb.
text: Tom corrects again. Keeps driving.
speaker_heading: FEMALE GPS VOICE (V.0O.)
text: In, half a mile, turn right.
text: The proximity sensor warns: front bumper.
text: Tom tries to steer around it, but not fast enough.
text: The front end rises half a foot, then drops again, running
text: over the obstacle.
text: The back end follows.
text: Malorie gives Tom a look. Tom glances her way.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Don’t think about it.
text: From the back seat:
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: What was that? A speed bump?
text: Malorie and Tom don’t say what they’re thinking it was.
text: Outside, through the windows, the group can hear the static
text: hiss of a hydrant leak as they drive past it.
text: Water pocks the hood, roof, and right side.
text: Tom keeps going, white-knuckled.
speaker_heading: FEMALE GPS VOICE (V.0.)
dialog: Turn right, here.
dialog: 51.
text: The map points the way.
text: Tom turns slowly.
text: The proximity sensor beeps: Left front corner.
text: Tom adjusts. Goes again.
text: Beep. Right front corner.
text: Tom steers. Backs up. Looks for another route.
text: Beep. Rear bumper.
text: Tom puts it in park.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: There’s something, I don’t know,
dialog: probably a truck...
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Keep going around.
text: Tom goes for the shifter.
text: Something crashes, outside. Glass breaks.
text: Everyone remains quiet. The car idles.
text: Then: Beep. Front bumper proximity.
text: Growing more incessant.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Someone else driving?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Shh--
text: Beep-beep-beep-beep.
text: The front end of the Cadillac sinks. Metal warps.
text: A heavy weight advances along the car.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Oh god, oh god--
text: The group looks up:
text: Dents form in the roof. The middle bows. A muted, rhythmic
text: RASPING carries heavy from outside.
text: Felix sweats, his hand gripping the axe.
dialog: 52.
text: The roof bows over the back seat.
text: Lucy holds up her golf club at it, as if to prevent the roof
text: from caving in. It trembles in her hands.
text: Everyone in the car is on the verge of panic.
text: Then the rear end lowers. It’s walked onto the trunk.
text: Lucy and Felix look back at the rear window, even though it’s
text: walled off with tape and box lids.
text: Glass cracks.
text: And then, out of the tense silence: BEEP-BEEP-BEEP.
text: Rear bumper proximity.
text: Suddenly: something strikes HARD at the back window--
text: The taped glass caves inward from it-- exposing the outside--
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Don’t look back!
text: Tom puts the car into gear.
text: And he drives straight ahead. Alerts be damned.
text: Sunlight pours in from the partly caved-in window--
text: The side-view mirror bashes something.
text: Tom keeps going. He pops a curb. The car lurches.
speaker_heading: FEMALE GPS VOICE (V.0.)
text: In one hundred yards, turn left.
text: Tom speeds up. Driving faster.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Tom...
speaker_heading: FEMALE GPS VOICE (V.0.)
dialog: Turn left, here.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Tom, just slow down--
text: Tom yanks the wheel left, the car ascends a short ramp--
text: And the whole car jostles from another curb bump--
text: And then Tom brakes hard. The tires screech on asphalt.
speaker_heading: FEMALE GPS VOICE (V.0.)
dialog: You have arrived.
dialog: 53.
text: They all catch their breath. Beat.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Now... we just have to go outside.
text: Tom brings up a blindfold. Ties it.
text: Malorie covers her eyes with a sleep mask.
text: In back, Lucy dons a ‘do-rag for a blindfold. Felix puts on
text: his motorcycle helmet, its visor painted black.
text: The four sit there with their hands on the doors. No one
dialog: wants to step out first.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET - DAY
text: Some lights are still on. But the place is eerily quiet.
text: Tom, Malorie, Felix, and Lucy enter the store.
speaker_heading: TOM
text: Shut the door behind us.
text: Lucy and Malorie work together to slide the doors shut, which
text: are papered with ads for some sale, covering any view of the
text: parking lot outside.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: What now?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Shh...
text: Tom listens intently. Quiet is the reply.
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
text: I’m taking off my blindfold.
text: He peels it off, blinks, and adjusts to the dimly-lit store.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: .--Tom?
speaker_heading: TOM
text: Form a chain together and follow.
dialog: But keep your eyes covered.
text: Tom grabs Felix by the hand. Felix reaches for Lucy, who in
text: turn grabs hold of Malorie.
text: MOVING WITH TOM as he checks down every aisle, one at a time.
dialog: 54.
text: Emergency lighting casts the warehouse-sized store in red and
text: amber. A handful of carts have been abandoned in aisles but
text: otherwise the store shows no signs of disaster.
text: Tom reaches the end, and his muscles relax.
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
dialog: We're clear.
text: The others take off their blinders and look around.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: It’s loaded.
text: Tom smiles.
speaker_heading: TOM
text: Everybody grab a cart.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET SNACK FOODS AISLE
text: Felix grabs potato chip bags by the fistful. He tears one
text: open and starts snacking. From somewhere else in the store,
dialog: Tom calls out:
speaker_heading: TOM (0.S.)
dialog: Stick to non-perishables. We need
dialog: food that will last.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET LIQUOR AISLE
text: Lucy twists off the cap to a beer bottle and takes a swig.
speaker_heading: TOM (0.S.)
dialog: Avoid bulky items. Remember we
dialog: gotta pack this into the trunk.
text: Lucy looks over at her cart: full of energy drinks and beer.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET HYGIENE AISLE
text: Tom marvels at the deodorants, shampoos and soaps. Grins.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I’m gonna be a hero.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET CEREAL AISLE
text: Felix searches through boxes of cereal, most of which has
text: been shoved around and mixed together.
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: C’mon baby c’mon... Yes!
text: He lifts up a box of Choco-Burst like it’s a gold medal.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET WOMENS FASHION
text: Lucy stands at a mirror wearing a wide-brimmed sun hat and
text: holding up an evening gown to see if it’s her size. All of it
text: very dressy and upscale, unlike her workout clothes.
text: She does a mock accent for the mirror:
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: My name is Cheryl. Don’t you have
dialog: any Pelligrino?
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET DELI SECTION
text: Malorie picks up a pack of sealed lunchmeats. Sniffs it.
text: A shopping cart rolls into view behind her. Tom.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Anything still good?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Maybe. If we eat it tonight.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Thought you might like this.
text: He hands her a gift bag, complete with hastily-stuffed tissue
text: paper and a bow. And also still sporting the price code.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What is this?
speaker_heading: TOM
text: A baby shower gift.
text: Malorie smiles and digs into the bag. Pulls out a classic
text: baby’s pacifier. She’s happy. A small thing with a big
text: gesture behind it.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: It’s lovely. Thank you.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: No doubt you and your husband
dialog: already have one back home.
text: Malorie tilts her head. Is he fishing?
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: No husband. It was all casual until
dialog: he knocked me up. But he didn’t
dialog: want his “whole life turned upside
text: down,” so he bailed.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Well. I bet he’s gotta be really
text: inconvenienced by how the world has
dialog: gone to hell now.
text: He grins at her. Malorie laughs. Nods. Then the distant
text: sounds of someone loading their cart pulls Tom back to:
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
dialog: (checking list)
dialog: Can you go and grab some batteries?
dialog: The flashlights take double A. I’m
dialog: gonna grab some clothes for people.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Aye aye, captain.
text: Malorie pushes her cart onward and Tom turns his around.
text: As Tom ventures back to the Mens department, Malorie looks
text: back at him. She smiles.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET AUTOMOTIVE AISLE
text: Malorie grabs batteries and tosses them into her cart.
text: A fly buzzes past her. She sniffs. Something stinks. She
text: approaches the end of the aisle. Wary.
text: The smell is definitely coming from this end of the store.
text: Malorie brings up a flashlight. She rounds a corner. More
text: flies buzz from a neighboring section.
text: Malorie shines her light on the sign: “FOR PETS”
text: She frowns, and advances.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET PET AISLE
text: The flashlight beam reveals a line of cages placed on shelves
text: along one side.
text: A trampled sign on the floor: “TODAY ONLY / ADOPT A PET!”
text: Some cages hang open. Empty.
dialog: 57.
text: The flashlight glimpses shapes in others. Matted fur. Blood
text: and feces. In this low light it’s hard to tell if they are
dialog: cats or dogs.
text: Malorie winces, covering her nose and mouth.
text: And then she hears it. A small CHIRP.
text: She turns back. Sweeps the light. Finds a bird cage at the
text: end, covered in black silk.
text: Malorie lifts the veil and peers inside:
text: Six fat, little BUDGIES turn their heads at her.
text: One hops over to her side of the cage.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: You made it. You cute little guys.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET GROCERY AISLE
text: Felix wheels his cart up next to another cart.
text: The abandoned cart is filled with canned goods. Toilet paper.
text: Freeze-dried foods. A lot like his cart.
text: Felix reaches over and touches one of the thawed packages...
text: and his fingers are wet.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Guys?
dialog: (louder)
dialog: Hey, is someone here?
text: A POUNDING on a door stops him short.
speaker_heading: FELIX (CONT'D)
dialog: (tense)
dialog: Guys!
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET - DAY
text: Four loaded shopping carts converge at the back by the deli.
text: Tom, Malorie, and Lucy get to Felix.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: I think someone’s inside.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Inside where?
text: More POUNDING. Nearby. Felix points--
dialog: 58.
text: Tom shines his light past a cleared-out butcher’s counter.
text: The walk-in freezer door. Its HANDLE VIBRATES as something
text: pounds from inside.
text: Tom moves around the counter for the door.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What are you doing?
text: Tom steps to the metal door. It rattles in its hinges.
speaker_heading: WEAK VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Let me out...
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Hello?
text: The voice speaks again but it’s too muffled. Tom leans in
text: closer. Puts a hand on the door.
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
dialog: Who's in there?
speaker_heading: WEAK VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Open the door open the door hurry
dialog: please hurry just open it...
text: Tom puts a hand on the handle.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Are you nuts?
speaker_heading: TOM
text: He’s trapped inside.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: So? Leave him there.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I don’t know how to do that.
text: He grips the handle.
text: Lucy and Felix join him. Malorie stays by the carts.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Just a crack. So you can talk.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: All right.
text: The POUNDING resumes. Tom slides the lock back and turns the
text: handle... He opens the metal door an inch...
dialog: 59.
text: And he leans his face to the edge but doesn’t look inside--
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
dialog: How'd you get locked in?
text: Bloody fingers grip the door. Someone wheezes.
speaker_heading: WEAK VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: They did it, they tricked me, they
dialog: told me to do it then they left me
dialog: to rot like raw meat--
text: By Malorie, the budgies all start CHIRPING madly.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Uh, Tom? Something--
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: (to Man)
dialog: Calm down, tricked you?
speaker_heading: WEAK VOICE (0.S.)
text: Just open the door and let it out,
dialog: let it loose let it see you see it--
text: The budgies flap their wings in a maelstrom of panic--
text: Something heavy presses on the metal door--
text: And then, the briefest glimpse of long FINGERS or TALONS at
text: an upper edge of the frame-- what_is that?--
text: Lucy, Felix, and Tom all lean against the door to keep it
dialog: from opening further but--
text: THEIR SHOES slide on the floor an inch--
speaker_heading: WEAK VOICE (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: It wants out IT WANTS OUT--
text: Malorie rushes in, using a cart as a battering ram--
text: It SLAMS on the man’s hand and he HOWLS--
text: The door then shuts all the way--
text: Tom slides the bolt locked again--
text: And everyone steps back. The budgies calm down again.
scene_heading: INT. SUPER TARGET —- MOMENTS LATER
text: The four form a train with their carts and hurry down an
text: aisle back for the entrance.
dialog: 60.
text: The front cart suddenly gets caught on something and stops
dialog: the forward momentum.
text: Malorie moves around to push it out of the way and then gasps
text: and steps back when she sees it:
text: A dead man. Recently dead. Gripping a box cutter that’s
text: stabbed into his own throat, wet blood around him.
text: It’s JASON. The disbeliever who left their house on day one.
text: Tom urges them, pressing on:
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Keep moving.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - DAY
text: Cheryl dusts with a dry cloth in the living room, listening
text: to Sinatra on the radio. Olympia watches her. Donald applies
text: duct tape to the curtains in the living room.
text: They’re all full of nervous energy.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Give him time. He’s got twenty-four
text: hours of footage to watch.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Maybe they don’t get close enough
dialog: to the house for the security
dialog: cameras. You know?
text: Thump. Thump thump. They all stop and look up at the ceiling.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Is that...?
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Oh no. Greg...
text: More THUMPING overhead now. And then a sound. From Greg’s
text: vocal cords, but not quite a scream. Something else.
text: And it rises in pitch. Then it becomes clearer that Greg is
text: shrieking a word over and over: Donald’s name.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALL - MOMENTS LATER
text: The THUMPING is shockingly loud now. Accompanied by crashing
text: and breaking, as framed photos in the room topple off walls.
dialog: 61.
text: Donald reaches the door and puts his hand on the knob, ready
text: to rush inside, but he stops. Steps back.
text: Greg has stopped HOWLING by the time Cheryl and Olympia catch
text: up. Olympia doesn’t reach the top steps, reluctant to get
text: close. Cheryl starts to panic:
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: What are you waiting for?
speaker_heading: DONALD
text: The TV faces the door.
text: A final, sickening CRUNCH ends the THUMPING. Cheryl now takes
text: a step back as Donald grabs the doorknob again.
speaker_heading: DONALD (CONT'D)
dialog: Greg? Greg just listen to me.
dialog: Everything's gonna be fine. Just
dialog: take some deep breaths, okay?
dialog: No response.
text: BY DONALD'S SHOES, blood seeps into the hall from under the
text: door frame.
text: Donald takes a breath and squeezes his eyes shut.
text: He opens the door.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS BEDROOM
text: Arms outstretched, eyes closed, Donald enters the room.
text: The first thing to note is that the overhead lights are off.
text: With the sealed windows, the room is dark save for the wan,
text: flickering light from the TV, casting everything in blue.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Greg? Say something.
text: Donald takes a step and nearly slips on the blood-slicked
text: floor. But he gets his balance and keeps his eyes shut.
text: Donald's foot brushes a chair leg. He steps over it...
text: Past more pieces of the demolished chair.
text: And then, in the glow of the TV: a severed finger by the
text: remains of the chair.
dialog: But no Greg.
text: Donald gropes for the TV. It buzzes softly with power.
dialog: 62.
text: As he searches blindly for the cord, the screen becomes
text: partially visible, at an oblique angle.
text: The security footage has been paused, an image frozen in
text: time. The thermographic video flickers and wobbles...
text: But a SHAPE in shadow is nearly exposed on one side.
dialog: Just when we're about to get a clearer view of it-- POP.
text: Donald shuts the TV off.
speaker_heading: DONALD (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay, it’s off!
dialog: (opens his eyes)
dialog: Where...
text: Cheryl leans in, reaches to the light switch and flips it--
text: And then SCREAMS in shock at what she sees:
text: Greg's broken, mutilated body. Hanging from the canopy bed
text: like a giant insect caught in a spiderweb, his broken legs
text: and arms twisted at inhuman angles, the rope caught on the
text: bedposts, gouging into his bloodied neck, suspending him.
text: Blood trickles onto the framed photo of his wife. And then,
text: distant mechanical sound. The garage door.
scene_heading: INT. GARAGE - MOMENTS LATER
text: The garage door lowers behind the Cadillac as it pulls in.
text: The door reaches the ground... and then Tom and the others
text: climb out of the beat-up car.
text: Malorie takes the bird cage out on her side and makes eye
text: contact with Tom on the driver’s side.
text: She notices his attention to the car.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What is it?
text: Tom feels the hood and roof. Traces the indentations.
speaker_heading: TOM
text: It has feet. And it’s heavy.
dialog: (to others)
dialog: Two things we didn’t know before.
text: Cheryl enters, pale and trembling.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Something happened to Greg.
text: Tom frowns and leaves. Lucy and Cheryl follow.
text: A can of yellow corn rolls to Malorie’s foot. She picks it up
text: and stares at it.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY
text: Blindfolded, Malorie opens a can of cold pork-and-beans.
text: Jabs a plastic utensil in the can.
text: She scoops out a spoonful.
text: Holds her hand out.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Scoop.
text: Girl reaches out her hand.
text: Finds Malorie’s wrist.
text: Guides the spoon to her mouth.
text: Girl taps Malorie’s wrist gently.
text: And Malorie knows to refill the spoon.
text: Right now, no one rows.
text: Malorie feeds Boy next.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Boy. Scoop.
text: Wrapped in blankets, he reaches out, guides the spoon.
text: Takes a bite.
text: Taps her wrist.
text: She pulls it away.
speaker_heading: BOY
text: My hands and feet feel like, like
dialog: needles. Poking. All the time.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Remember your job. Listen. With
dialog: both ears.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Girl. Scoop.
text: Girl takes a bite. Chews.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Malorie...
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Yes, Boy.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Why did God give us eyes?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: To look.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: But, we can’t really look. You
dialog: taught us to wake up with them
dialog: closed. Why give us eyes at all?
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: To give us hope.
text: Boy ponders this answer.
scene_heading: INT. GREG’S HOUSE - FIVE YEARS EARLIER - NIGHT
text: Pressing in on the back door, set into a “mud room” off the
text: kitchen, with a place for boots, heavy coats, etc.
text: Malorie (long-haired, seven-months pregnant now) enters from
text: outside, carrying a paint bucket filled with water. She’s
text: also wearing a blindfold. Her breath plumes in the night air.
text: Just as she shuts the door behind her, we catch a glimpse of
text: the setup: The back door has a tarpaulin hood covering view
text: of the outside, attached to a small awning, so it creates a
text: little cocoon just outside the door.
text: Malorie sets the pail down, takes off her blindfold, and
text: reaches over to one wall...
text: ...-where a large WHITEBOARD hangs with a set of instructions:
scene_heading: WATER WELL SCHEDULE
text: 35 steps from back porch
dialog: follow the chain (left of door)
dialog: handle cranks AWAY = up, TOWARD = down
dialog: everyone participates!
dialog: Below is a list of names with check marks by their names to
dialog: indicate the number of water trips they’ve taken.
text: Malorie puts a check mark by her name.
dialog: 65.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Water pours down a funnel from the pail into a plastic jug.
text: Malorie then gets a glass for herself.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Malorie sits on the couch, drinking the water.
text: Her attention drifts to the coffee table, where the landline
text: phone sits alongside the Stonebridge phone book.
text: She scoots the book toward her, flips through the pages.
text: And then picks up the receiver. Holds it to her ear.
text: Remarkably, there is still a dial tone. (This is probable but
dialog: only with old landline telephony. )
text: Malorie flips to the yellow pages section and finds a listing
dialog: for the hospitals.
text: She starts dialing.
text: Behind her, over her shoulder, the open kitchen area. And,
text: farther still, the back door in the mud room. That area is
text: unlit now, but the white of the back door stands out.
text: And the door starts to open.
text: Malorie doesn’t hear. She’s busy trying numbers.
text: PRESSING IN on Malorie as she dials and listens for a working
text: number on the other end, edging out the view of the door and
text: the kitchen as something gets closer...
dialog: Then that sound.
text: That otherworldly, inhuman noise.
text: Malorie’s whole body goes rigid with sudden fear.
text: She snaps her eyes closed and leans down into the couch to
dialog: try and hide.
text: Her shallow breath is overtaken by the sound of rasping.
text: Close on her face, eyes firmly shut, and then--
text: Two ragged FINGERS with wet, black talons on the ends reach
text: in and press against her cheek and eyebrow. Malorie whimpers
text: in shock, tries to turn away from the contact, but then--
dialog: 66.
text: The fingers spread, pulling her eyelid open, forcing her to
dialog: look directly at the thing--
text: Her pupil contracts in terror--
text: And for a singular frame we see: A wide-mouthed, pale, wet
text: FACE with bulging eyes like a deep-sea monster, then--
scene_heading: INT. MALORIE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Malorie wakes up from the nightmare, breathless.
text: Her hair is damp with sweat.
text: It takes her a moment to calm down.
text: Olympia snores softly in the neighboring bed.
text: Malorie reaches for a glass on her nightstand. It’s empty.
scene_heading: INT. FOYER
text: Malorie descends the stairs with her empty glass, headed for
text: the kitchen. She passes the front door...
text: A moment later, there’s a VOICE from outside.
speaker_heading: STRANGER (0.S.)
dialog: Anyone? Hello?
text: Malorie freezes. Tense. Waits it out.
text: A pause. Silence.
text: Malorie turns, shaking her head, then:
speaker_heading: STRANGER (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Help, is there anyone?
text: Malorie goes to the door and calls out:
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Someone there?
speaker_heading: STRANGER (0.S.)
dialog: Oh god, oh thank god.
text: The sound of boots on the wood planks of the front entry.
text: Fumbling sounds of the blanket insulating the front door.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Who is it?
dialog: 67.
text: His voice rises at the end of his sentences, so sometimes
text: they sound like questions.
speaker_heading: STRANGER (0.S.)
dialog: My name is Gary? I’m, I got lost
dialog: scavenging for food and, hello? Is
dialog: this the front door?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
text: It’s the middle of the night.
speaker_heading: GARY (0.S.)
dialog: Is it? Shit, it’s been hours...
text: Malorie looks upstairs for help. No one else is awake. She
text: hesitates. Then remembers the budgies.
text: They slumber in their cage, a few paces away. Unfazed.
text: Malorie double-checks by picking up the box and holding it
text: close to the door. She whispers to them:
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (to budgies)
dialog: Is it safe out there?
speaker_heading: GARY (0.S.)
dialog: Please. It’s cold. Can I come in?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: There’s a protocol. I can’t let you
dialog: inside right now. You have to wait.
speaker_heading: GARY (0.S.)
dialog: I fell and I’m bleeding. I can’t
dialog: see how bad it is? I don’t want to
dialog: bleed to death, please...
text: Malorie sets the box of budgies down and debates with
dialog: herself. They didn’t consider someone with an injury when
dialog: they made the rules.
text: She closes her eyes, then opens the door.
text: GARY (late 30s) steps in. Tall, wearing a flannel jacket.
text: Could be a truck driver. Also blindfolded.
speaker_heading: GARY (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m in.
text: He helps her shut the door. Then he takes off his blindfold.
text: His arm is badly cut, matting his flannel jacket. He notices
text: it and sets down his backpack, to ease out of his coat.
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: GARY (CONT’D)
dialog: Okay, so yeah, I’m gonna take this
dialog: off. And then maybe you have some
dialog: gauze or a towel or something?
text: Malorie hurries to the powder room and returns with a thin
text: hand-towel.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I’m Malorie.
text: Gary takes the towel and wraps his wound. The cut is long but
text: not deep; superficial.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Pleasure. Thanks.
dialog: (notices)
dialog: Wow, you’re about ready to pop.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Where have you been staying?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Over on Lincoln? Like maybe quarter
dialog: mile that way? No, this way.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Alone this whole time?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: No. What about you? Are you alone?
text: He looks back at her. The question is unsettling.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Everyone’s awake now, sitting around the room: Malorie and
text: Olympia, Lucy, Tom, Don, Cheryl, and Gary. Gary holds court.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: My brother has always been that
dialog: guy. You know the one? With the
text: disaster “go bag” and the ammo
dialog: reloader for his AR-15? He was
dialog: always sort of an asshole, but I
dialog: knew I’d be safer with him than
dialog: anywhere else. By the time I got
dialog: there he had six other guys all
text: staying with him, hunting buddies.
dialog: Eddie-- my brother-- he had
text: blankets on the windows, but they
dialog: were ready to arm up, go out and
dialog: bag them a monster.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: How’d that work out for them.
text: Gary shakes his head.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Two of them went out, never came
dialog: back. But we let this guy in? He
dialog: looked lost, said his wife and kids
dialog: just... he was alone. That...
dialog: changed things.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Who was he?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Just some guy. Carl? That was his
dialog: name, I think. Kept to himself,
dialog: didn’t talk much, wouldn’t join the
dialog: group for meals. I think he was
dialog: scared of my brother’s friends.
text: Gary takes a breath, knowing where his story is going.
speaker_heading: GARY (CONT’D)
dialog: The one time he did join us, he
dialog: said something. He believes this
dialog: whole thing is a hoax. There are no
dialog: creatures, or whatever, out there.
dialog: And we're all being tricked. Of
dialog: course that didn’t go over well
dialog: with anyone else, and he shut up
dialog: after that.
scene_heading: INT. EDDIE'S HOUSE - FLASHBACK - NIGHT
text: Gary and six rough-and-tumble MEN sit around a dining room
text: table, passing a bottle around. It’s a frat party for middle-
text: aged men. Gary tries to keep up.
speaker_heading: GARY (V.O.)
dialog: The guys raided a liquor store and
dialog: we all celebrated that night.
scene_heading: INT. EDDIE’S UPSTAIRS HALL - FLASHBACK — MORNING
text: Gary approaches the stairs down to the first floor. His
text: clothes are disheveled.
speaker_heading: GARY (V.O.)
dialog: But I can’t drink like they do. I
text: passed out upstairs at some point.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: GARY (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: And when I went back down to beg my
dialog: brother for some aspirin...
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Back to scene.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Carl had pulled down all the
text: blankets and left the doors open.
text: Olympia gasps.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: You know it was Carl, and not any
dialog: of your brother's friends?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: My brother and his friends are all
text: dead, in that house. But Carl... He
text: left. And he left the door open
text: behind him.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: How is that even possible? I mean,
dialog: everyone who’s seen one of those
dialog: things...
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: What if he was already insane? We
dialog: don’t know what it does to you if
dialog: your mind’s already broken. Maybe
dialog: it doesn't affect you. Maybe it can
dialog: affect everyone differently.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Like that guy in the freezer at the
dialog: store. Shit... Bad enough we gotta
dialog: worry about monsters or whatever
dialog: the fuck they are. Now this?
text: The group erupts into conversation. Donald pulls Tom out of
text: the group for a sideline talk.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Aren’t you worried?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: About what?
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: DONALD
text: Old man Edgar. He keeps to himself,
dialog: always getting paper, his fingers
dialog: have charcoal stains... Didn’t you
dialog: hear Gary’s story?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Tom, yes.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: He’s been here for weeks without
dialog: incident. He’s harmless.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Or he’s a time bomb.
text: Donald walks away. Tom stays, struggling with the issue.
scene_heading: INT. SPARE BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie brushes her hair after a shower, prepping for bed.
text: Olympia enters with a glass of water.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: I’m going right back to bed.
text: Olympia opens the medicine cabinet and grabs three pill
text: bottles. Vitamin supplements. Pre-natal prescriptions.
text: Malorie notices. Inspects a bottle, surprised.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Where’d you get the pre-natal
dialog: supplements?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: I had them on me.
text: Malorie suddenly feels like the worst mother ever. She stops
text: combing out her hair and stares at her reflection a beat.
text: Olympia jars her out of her silent shame--
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: For what.
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: For coming over here. I hear what
dialog: Don says about us. One pregnant
dialog: woman was a problem, two is too
dialog: much. I’m a burden.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: No you're not.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Yes I am. I’m so used to my husband
dialog: handling things. He loves me so
dialog: much... I got soft from all that
dialog: love. Forgot how to do things.
dialog: Now he’s out there, and maybe he’s
dialog: flying jets but, I mean...
text: Olympia tries really hard not to cry. It’s clear now, she
text: feels like the unprepared one, and sees Malorie as better.
text: Malorie moves to comfort her. Takes Olympia’s hand in hers.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Hey. It’s going to be all right.
text: Olympia smiles with a sadness at Malorie.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: If something happens to me, I want
dialog: you to care for it. Okay?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: It’s your baby.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: I don’t think that means much
dialog: anymore.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (emphatic)
dialog: It’s going to be okay. We’re going
dialog: to make it. All of us.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY
text: Five years later. Just Malorie and the children.
text: Girl and Boy perch at either end of the boat.
text: Malorie rows. All of them are still blindfolded.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Children... I need to tell you
text: about the waterfall.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (breath)
dialog: This is the hardest thing we have
dialog: ever done together. One of you...
dialog: One of you needs to be brave--
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Shh.
text: Malorie frowns. Cranes her neck.
speaker_heading: BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: (whispered)
dialog: You hear that?
text: Now they all strain to hear.
text: And there it is: an outboard motor. Getting closer.
text: Malorie rows back for the bank.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Keep your heads down.
text: She finds the shallows.
text: Just as the engine noise gets even louder.
text: Like it’s moving for them.
text: Malorie grips the oar tightly. Girl and Boy listen.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Do not take off your blindfolds.
text: The boat’s engine cuts abruptly.
text: The air smells of gasoline.
text: Footsteps cross what sounds like a deck.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: Hello there!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hey you three, it’s okay. You can
dialog: remove your blindfolds, I’m just an
dialog: ordinary man.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto, to children)
dialog: No you cannot.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: There’s nothing out here with us,
dialog: Miss. We’re all alone.
dialog: 74.
text: Malorie is still. Tense.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: ...-How do you know?
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: Miss, I’m looking right now. I’ve
dialog: had my eyes open the entire trip
dialog: today. Yesterday, too.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: You can’t just look. You know that.
text: The stranger chuckles.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: Really, there’s nothing to be
dialog: afraid of. Not anymore. Just us two
text: on the river, crossing paths.
text: Girl puts her hand to her blindfold.
text: Toys with it.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: You can leave now.
text: She hears the man sigh.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: There’s no need to live like this.
dialog: Consider these children. They're
text: missing a chance to view a brisk,
dialog: beautiful day.
text: Malorie is trembling.
text: Full on fight-or-flight mode.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Stay away from our boat.
text: The man does not answer.
text: Then: splashes in the water. Nearby.
text: Malorie raises the paddle.
dialog: Her only defense.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: Miss, the view is incredible.
dialog: When’s the last time you looked
dialog: outside? Years? Have you seen this
dialog: river? The sun?
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: We are keeping them on.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: I gave that up yesterday. I moved
dialog: on. You can do it, too.
text: His voice is closer. Wading.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Leave us alone.
text: Girl keeps a hand on her blindfold.
text: Head crooked in the direction of his voice.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: They can’t haunt you forever. They
dialog: can’t force you to live like this.
dialog: (closer now)
dialog: Your worries only keep you safe
text: long enough to worry some more.
text: The Man’s HAND reaches the front of the boat.
text: His body near Girl.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: And I’1l1 tell you what...
text: His MOUTH speaks near the Girl’s ear.
speaker_heading: MAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve seen one.
text: Malorie grabs Girl and pulls her close.
text: She makes a soft yelp in alarm.
text: They hear the man laugh.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: They aren’t as ugly as you’d think,
dialog: Miss. Just, well, no way to
dialog: describe them. You gotta see one.
text: The Man’s arm reaches in, moving to caress Malorie’s cheek...
text: She senses it a moment before--
text: And swipes with a survival knife in her fist--
text: Suddenly it’s a closed-quarters fight--
text: The Man trying to pull her overboard--
text: Malorie struggling, stabbing with the knife--
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Stay away from us--
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: I’1l1 make you all look--
text: He grabs onto the knife, tearing it from her grip.
text: And Malorie shoves off the bank. Hard.
text: The boat gets loose from the Man.
text: He was too busy grappling for the knife.
text: Malorie sacrificed it to escape him.
text: And now they're in the current again.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Keep your eyes closed!
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.)
dialog: Where are you going to go?
text: She's rowing now. Faster.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you going to cry every time you
dialog: hear a stick crack?
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Who's the crazy one? Kids, your
dialog: mother is not well, take off those
dialog: blindfolds! See the world!
text: Malorie paddles.
text: They're moving dangerously fast now.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What is the rule. Tell me.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I didn’t look.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: I didn’t either.
text: She brings them into a tight hug.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: You did so well.
text: They hug back. Beat.
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Malorie? Was that the man who sings
dialog: all the music?
text: Malorie lets out her tension with a laugh.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: No, honey. No it was not.
text: The faint crooning of FRANK SINATRA fades in--
scene_heading: INT. GREG’S HOUSE - DAY
text: The living room radio plays the music.
text: Returning to five years ago. The room is crowded with
text: listeners, including Malorie, Donald, Cheryl, and Gary.
text: The furniture in the room has been moved since last time.
text: A thin line of SUNLIGHT slices into the room from the
text: curtains hanging on the picture window. This is the only sign
text: of sun in the room, possibly the whole house.
text: At the bar counter leading to the kitchen, Lucy stands and
text: stares at the calendar. September 3 has an ‘X’ through it,
text: along with the next two days after it.
text: IN THE LIVING ROOM, Sinatra ends and the deejay returns.
speaker_heading: DEEJAY (V.O.)
dialog: Well. That was the whole album.
dialog: Probably my favorite of his.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I don’t know if anyone’s listening
dialog: anymore. No one’s talking, that’s
dialog: for sure. Cell towers are dead. No
text: chatter on the shortwave. September
dialog: third came and went without a sign
dialog: of the Guard.
text: There’s a pause. Like the Deejay is out of things to say.
text: Nervous at the silence, Cheryl stage whispers:
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: I wish we could call him.
speaker_heading: DONALD
text: It’s a digital switchboard. He
dialog: doesn’t have a landline like us.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: How come the landline works?
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: It’s a “land line.” Physical wires,
dialog: not cell towers and satellites. And
dialog: you don’t need juice to use them.
speaker_heading: DEEJAY (V.O.)
dialog: Whatever is out there, maybe it got
dialog: everyone. Maybe all that’s left is
dialog: me, Sinatra, and those things.
text: There’s a mechanical sound over the radio, and it prickles
text: Malorie’s nerves. A slide locking.
text: She goes to the landline phone on the end table. The phone
text: book is opened to a page with the radio’s call-in number.
text: Malorie starts dialing while the others listen.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Malorie, didn’t you hear what I
dialog: just said?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I have to try. One more time.
speaker_heading: DEEJAY (V.O.)
dialog: There is a lot I don’t know...
text: Malorie paces with the phone, frantic.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Come on, come on...
speaker_heading: DONALD MALORIE
dialog: What are you doing-- Shut up!
speaker_heading: DEEJAY (V.O.)
dialog: But I do know one thing. Those
dialog: monsters aren’t going to get the
dialog: satisfaction of doing me in.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Sing it, Blue Eyes.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: No, no-- Gary, turn it off, turn it
dialog: off right now!
text: Sinatra’s dulcet tones kick in. “Softly As I Leave You.”
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: What? It’s fine.
text: And then, muffled-- A GUNSHOT.
dialog: 79.
text: Everyone jumps as if electrocuted by the sound.
text: Malorie slams the phone down in anger. This is what she was
text: desperately trying to stop, futile as it was from here.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Oh my god.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I told you to turn it off!
text: Tom enters, hearing the flaring tempers.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: What happened?
text: Felix finds a dry humor way to it, trying to cope:
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Someone just ruined a perfectly
dialog: good Sinatra song for me is what.
dialog: (off Tom’s look)
dialog: We lost our news guy.
text: Overhead, the lights flicker Everyone looks up.
speaker_heading: DONALD
text: Power grid has been down for days.
dialog: We need to keep the generator
dialog: running, and we’re out of diesel.
dialog: Isn't that right, Tom.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: How long can we last with what
dialog: we've got?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: A day. Maybe less.
text: The room erupts into ARGUING, voices overlapping--
speaker_heading: FELIX TOM
dialog: --not even with meal --can’t point fingers now--
dialog: assignments--
speaker_heading: DONALD MALORIE
dialog: --told you we are too many-- --just turn everyone away?
text: It escalates quickly when Donald and Cheryl square off--
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: And I've been trying to keep the
dialog: place tidy all week--
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: But that’s all you do, you just
dialog: move furniture around and run the
dialog: vacuum, you aren’t making a real
dialog: difference here!
text: Before Cheryl hisses a response, a sound shuts them up.
text: The sounds of CHIRPING. The budgies. In their cage. Set by
text: the front door.
text: Everyone gets very quiet. Watching the birds freak out.
text: Then: A SHADOW blocks the strip of sunlight from the picture
text: window. Something looms close by.
text: Olympia puts her hands over her face. Felix comforts her. But
text: everyone keeps waiting.
text: The shadow leaves. The sliver of sun returns.
text: And the budgies quit CHIRPING.
text: Olympia spasms on the couch, snaking her hands around her
text: belly. Grimacing in pain.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Oh. Oh no.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: That. That was a contraction.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: You’re not due for two more weeks.
text: Olympia starts to panic at this statement.
text: Malorie gives Donald a look: Shut the fuck up, Donald.
text: Then she goes to Olympia and grabs her hand.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Hey, it’s fine, it’s probably just
dialog: Braxton Hicks. You get those early,
text: like little tremors.
text: This starts to calm Olympia down again. She exhales slowly.
text: Tom addresses the group.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: We need to make another run, right
dialog: now. For fuel and any medical
dialog: supplies to help with childbirth.
dialog: I’1l volunteer. I need three more.
dialog: 81.
text: Tom grabs the Scrabble pouch and holds it out.
text: Everyone looks at the bag with dread.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Tom shouldn’t be the only one to
dialog: volunteer. I'll go again.
text: Not wanting to be outdone by Lucy, Felix steps up.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Fine. If she’s going so am I.
text: And then Cheryl steps next to Felix.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: I’1l go.
text: Said right at Donald with a glare.
text: Donald gives her a look back: Good for you.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: All right, so us four.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
text: 1) Lucy grabs a baseball bat from an upstairs exercise room
text: she’s claimed as her bedroom. A sleeping bag drapes over a
text: stationary bike and a knapsack hangs as a punching bag.
speaker_heading: TOM (V.O.)
dialog: I have a new plan.
text: 2) Tom holds open a shoebox with holes cut in the sides. He
text: gingerly takes a budgie from the cage and transfers it.
speaker_heading: TOM (V.O.)
text: We find a manhole cover and take to
dialog: the tunnels. If they’re clear, it
dialog: gives us direct routes into town.
text: 3) Felix tries on his motorcycle helmet. Waves his hand in
text: front of his visor.
speaker_heading: TOM (V.O.)
dialog: Then we find our access points to
text: gas stations. Grocery stores.
dialog: Hospitals. We stock up.
text: 4) Cheryl stands in the bathroom, staving off a panic attack.
speaker_heading: TOM (V.O.)
dialog: And we return home the same way.
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALL - MOMENTS LATER
text: Cheryl steps out of the hall bathroom, still full of dread.
text: Lucy catches up to her at that moment. Nearly passes her by.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Hey. You okay?
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Oh, yes.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I don’t know how you do this.
dialog: You're so... brave. And clever.
text: Cheryl’s whole concept of who Lucy was has been demolished.
text: It’s enough in this moment for Lucy to revise her views, too.
text: She reaches out and puts a comforting hand on Cheryl.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: I’m scared, too. Just like you. But
dialog: we got this. Because we’re clever.
text: Cheryl nods, mustering courage again.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: Yeah. Okay.
scene_heading: INT. GREG’S HOUSE - DOWNSTAIRS BATHROOM - DAY
text: Malorie washes her face with water she pours from a jug.
text: She hears voices nearby. Leaning out the door, she spies--
text: DONALD AND TOM facing off in the dimly-lit dining room, near
text: a china cabinet of plateware no one will ever use.
speaker_heading: DONALD
text: No one’s thinking about it.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: What are you on about this time?
text: Donald speaks quickly with clenched teeth:
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Soon we'll have two infants. That’s
dialog: an added strain to our food supply,
dialog: our medical supply, and fresh water
dialog: supply, not to mention the noise of
dialog: two crying babies could bring those
dialog: things right to our door. What are
dialog: you gonna do when that’s a problem?
dialog: 83.
text: Tom is done with Donald’s shit.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: What’s your solution? Go on.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Doesn’t matter, I’m not the leader.
dialog: You are. They’re your problem. One
dialog: day you'll have to tell everyone
dialog: the only way to guarantee survival
dialog: is to stab out your own eyes, and
dialog: then we'll see how popular you are.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Is that what this is about? Being
dialog: leader? Fine, take it. It’s yours.
dialog: Go tell everybody your plan.
text: Donald balks at this. Starts to retort but doesn’t have a
text: ready comeback. Tom slaps him on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
dialog: All right, then how about you try
dialog: to think in terms of group survival
dialog: versus just your own. Okay?
text: Tom leaves Donald to stew his own fear of leadership.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Maybe I will.
text: Malorie, who’s seen this all, slinks out of the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. MUD ROOM - DAY
text: At the back door, Tom is first to arrive at the mud room for
dialog: the supply run.
text: Malorie approaches and hugs Tom. He hugs back. But she
text: doesn’t let go. Into his ear:
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I read that when you hug for twenty
text: seconds, it releases oxytocin into
dialog: your system. Helps calm the nerves.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I'll take it.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What did you do? Before all this.
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: You really wanna know?
dialog: (then, grinning)
dialog: Optometrist. There goes my career.
text: Malorie laughs. Nearly snorts. A genuine surprised laugh.
text: It's infectious, and gets Tom giggling.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Oh my god! Ohh. I can’t remember
dialog: the last time I laughed. Thank you.
text: She puts her hand on his chest. He keeps it there. An
text: unspoken invitation to tenderness. Malorie’s eyes sparkle.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: And you? What did you do?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Whatever paid the bills until I
dialog: figured out what I want to be.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: A mom?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Not really. I’m terrible at it.
text: The budgie in the box near Tom TWEETS softly. Lyrically.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I don’t think you give yourself
dialog: enough credit. You’re a survivor,
dialog: and survivors make good parents.
dialog: (grins)
dialog: Wouldn’t I make a good father?
text: Malorie looks up at Tom. Wondering if he’s asking what she
text: thinks he is. She starts to reply, when Tom looks past her:
speaker_heading: TOM (CONT'D)
dialog: Gary?
text: Malorie looks back to find Gary standing nearby. Felix, Lucy,
text: and Cheryl all arrive behind him.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I was thinking? You guys have been
dialog: doing this for a while, and really
dialog: I’m the new one around here, so I
dialog: should go.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: We could use one more.
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: No, I mean, I should go in
dialog: someone’s place. Most of you have
dialog: already done this at least once.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Well. You don’t have to--
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: (eager)
dialog: I’1ll stay.
text: All eyes on Felix now. But he’s not ashamed of it.
speaker_heading: FELIX (CONT'D)
dialog: What? Those things out there scare
dialog: the shit outta me.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: I thought you were going with me.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Only because you’re hot, but then I
dialog: realized I’m gonna be blindfolded
dialog: the whole time, so, whatever.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: All right, let’s go. Gary, get
dialog: something for your eyes.
dialog: (at Malorie)
dialog: We'll be back in a couple hours.
text: Malorie nods. The others gather at the back door.
text: Lucy looks back at Felix, eyebrow arched.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: You think I’m hot?
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Well, I mean--
dialog: (owns it)
dialog: Yes. Yes I do.
text: Lucy points to him before she exits with the others.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Be ready when I come back.
text: Felix realizes her meaning and looks to Malorie with a grin
dialog: of surprise: “I’m gonna get laid today!”
dialog: 86.
scene_heading: EXT. GREG’S BACK YARD - DAY
text: From the tarp-covered back door, a four-person chain emerges
text: on march alongside the house.
text: Tom leads, followed by Lucy, then Cheryl, and Gary brings up
text: the tail. They walk with one hand on the shoulder of the
text: person in front of them. All wearing some form of blindfold.
scene_heading: INT. MUD ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie stays by the door, listening to Tom's voice leading
text: the group away.
speaker_heading: DONALD (0.S.)
dialog: Tom better come back.
text: She looks over at Donald, who’s been watching her.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Why do you care now?
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: He’s the glue of the group. And
dialog: most of you wouldn’t know how to
dialog: survive on your own.
text: Donald exits down into the basement, leaving Malorie cold.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie sits down next to Olympia and returns to holding her
text: hand. Olympia smiles through her cramps.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Can we--
dialog: (breathes )
dialog: Can we do something distracting?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Like what?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Anything.
text: Malorie looks around and her eyes land on the phone book,
text: next to the phone.
text: She gives the book to Olympia and puts the phone in her lap.
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Here. Turn to the bookmarked page
dialog: and read me the next number.
text: Olympia opens the book to find PAGE AFTER PAGE of residential
text: names either circled or crossed through. Stopping at ‘M.’
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: What is this?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I've been calling people, leaving
dialog: messages when I get a machine.
dialog: Maybe there’s a doctor out there,
dialog: or someone who knows more about
dialog: what’s going on. Anyway, it be nice
dialog: to talk to someone new. Yeah?
text: Olympia doesn’t argue. She finds the next name.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
text: Bill Martinson. 980-1023.
text: Malorie dials the number. Listens to it ring.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Hello, yes, my name is Malorie.
dialog: There is a group of us here in
text: Riverbridge, on Shillingham Drive.
dialog: If you get this message, call us
dialog: back at this number. Please.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
text: Julie Marx. 761-8811.
text: Malorie dials another number. Listens. Waits. Shakes her head
dialog: at Olympia.
text: Olympia marks through the name, but winces at the end of it,
text: dropping her marker. Her eyes go wide--
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA (CONT’D)
dialog: Malorie. It’s happening now.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: You sure?
dialog: (off her look)
speaker_heading: FELIX!
speaker_heading: EDGAR (0.S.)
text: It’s comin’ out.
text: Malorie whips around to see EDGAR at the entry.
dialog: 88.
text: He stares at the two women, clutching a thermos in one hand.
text: The other shakes as if from Parkinson’s. And his fingertips
text: are fully blackened from using charcoal sticks.
speaker_heading: EDGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Only one room with enough space for
dialog: you to do it. The attic.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: The attic? That’s your room.
text: Edgar keeps talking like it’s a done deal. Donald arrives in
dialog: time to hear Edgar’s speech:
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: We used a midwife for our two kids.
dialog: You’re gonna need lots of water.
dialog: Sponges. Towels. Surgical tools
dialog: would help but I doubt you got
dialog: those, so you can cut the cord with
text: a pair of scissors an’ a coupla
text: binder clamps.
text: Malorie nods, feeling more uneasy by the moment.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Okay. Thanks.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
text: And a belt.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: A belt?
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Give you something to bite down on.
dialog: So you don’t scream.
dialog: (leans in)
dialog: There’s gonna be a lot of blood.
text: Felix enters from the kitchen with a bowl of dry Choco-Burst.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: That right there? Is why everyone
dialog: calls you “creepy guy.”
text: Malorie puts the phone down and stands, now a live-wire of
text: nervous energy.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: We can’t wait for them to get back.
dialog: 89.
scene_heading: INT. DOWNSTAIRS BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Felix barges in, a man on a mission. Trying not to freak out.
text: He grabs the bath towel hanging over the shower pole then
text: puts it back, frustrated--
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Wet.
text: He digs through cabinets and finds a dry wash cloth.
speaker_heading: FELIX (CONT'D)
dialog: Too small.
text: Upstairs, Olympia MOANS in pain. Felix looks up, nervous.
text: He decides to grab the floor towel.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALL
text: Malorie and Donald heft Olympia up the stairs to the attic.
text: She may be petite, but with the baby Olympia isn’t an easy
dialog: carry. Donald tries being positive for once:
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Doing great, just one more flight.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC ROOM
text: Donald and Malorie bring Olympia to the hardwood floor here,
text: straining in one last heave to set her down gently.
text: FLUID SPLASHES around Malorie’s feet. Her water broke.
text: Her eyes go wide.
text: Donald notices. Realizes.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Oh shit. You too?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: But I’m not due for three weeks!
text: Far downstairs, a door SLAMS shut.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Felix runs in carrying the floor towel and a pillow.
text: Gary stumbles in from the back of the house, wheezing.
text: Bleeding from his chin.
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Just in time!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Where’s everyone else?
text: Gary doesn’t answer right away. Tries to catch his breath.
speaker_heading: FELIX (CONT'D)
dialog: Gary...
text: Donald hurries downstairs, grinding to a halt by Felix when
text: he notices Gary on the floor.
text: Gary looks up and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: There was... was one in the...
dialog: tunnels. We got separated, and...
dialog: god, I just ran.
text: Gary doesn’t want to make eye contact.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: This just keeps getting better.
dialog: (to Gary)
dialog: Stay downstairs. You hear me?
text: Gary nods. Overhead: Olympia’s CRY of pain.
scene_heading: EXT. GREG’S HOUSE - DAY
text: Angle on the third floor and the gray sky beyond.
text: Olympia’s WAIL is joined by a second one: MALORIE.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Felix frantically fills a container with water at the sink--
text: Donald enters and starts pulling towels from a hanging rack--
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Both of them?
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: This is what you’d call a stress-
dialog: induced birth.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Do they know about Tom?
dialog: gl.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: No. And they aren’t going to. Not
dialog: until we get through this.
text: Donald moves for the stairs with the towels--
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC ROOM
text: Olympia and Malorie lie on their backs on the floor, atop
text: mattresses covered with beach towels. Both are sweaty, trying
text: to control their breathing. A sheet covers Olympia’s lap, and
text: a throw covers Malorie’s.
text: It’s raining, outside. Lightly. The rain tap-dances on the
text: skylights above. There isn’t enough light to get a good sense
text: of the walls in the room.
text: A lantern sits on a rolling table near the women. Curled up
text: by the lantern: TWO LEATHER BELTS, still with their Target
text: price tags stuck to the buckles.
text: Malorie MOANS. And looks to Olympia.
text: Olympia looks back. Scared.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: It’s happening. It’s really
dialog: happening.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Tom? Tom!
text: Donald arrives and sets the towels by a set of tools:
text: A pair of scissors. A knife. Metal binder clips.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Tom’s not here yet, but you’re
dialog: doing great. Both of you. Okay?
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: What do I do, tell me what to do--
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Keep breathing. And push. With
dialog: every breath.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Are you sure?
text: He considers something. Tries to find the appropriate words:
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: Do you, uh, want me to check, under
dialog: the sheet, and see--
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: No no!
dialog: (breath)
dialog: Okay yes, okay!
text: Donald looks. Olympia squeezes her eyes shut.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: I can see the head, keep pushing!
text: Felix enters, drops off the container of water. But it’s tall
dialog: and narrow, no good for soaking towels or washing newborns.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Here.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: That isn’t the right-- never mind,
dialog: stay with them, I’1l go get it.
text: Donald rushes down the stairs, leaving Felix awkward and
text: nervous with the two women.
text: Malorie looks away, at the other wall...
text: And sees Edgar standing just beyond the overhead light.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER
text: Donald returns from upstairs and makes a bee-line for the
text: large, shallow Tupperware container.
text: The chaos and muffled sounds of footsteps in the attic can
dialog: still be heard down here.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: This is crazy. You don’t bring kids
dialog: into this world.
text: The sudden sound of heavy KNOCKING on the back door startles
text: Donald. He goes to the mud room and looks in...
text: ...to see through the covered glass portion of the door: the
text: silhouette of a MAN.
text: THE DOOR HANDLE wiggles. Trying to open.
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: DONALD (CONT'D)
dialog: Who’s there!
speaker_heading: TOM (0.S.)
dialog: Tom! It’s Tom! Let me in!
dialog: Something with the sound of his voice... it’s not like we've
text: heard Tom before. Ragged. Raspy.
text: Donald starts for the door, but stops. Just like he did in
text: front of Greg’s bedroom door.
speaker_heading: DONALD
dialog: How do I know you’re not crazy?
speaker_heading: TOM (0.S.)
dialog: Because you’re an asshole!
text: Beat. Donald nods -- yeah, that’s Tom. He reaches up to a
text: shelf over the water-well whiteboard--
text: And grabs a SHOTGUN.
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER
text: LOW ANGLE as Tom collapses on the floor of the mud room. Cuts
text: and bruises mar his face. His coat is peppered with pieces of
text: foliage as if he’s run through the woods. His blindfold
text: barely covers his eyes. And he’s out of breath.
text: The shotgun barrel descends into frame by his head.
speaker_heading: DONALD (0.S.)
dialog: Gary said you were dead.
text: Tom pulls off his blindfold. His eyes are wild with panic.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: You let Gary back inside?
text: The shotgun barrel lifts away...
text: And now Donald is tense with a new fear.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - THAT MOMENT
text: Gary stands at a corner. His back to the room.
text: Just standing there.
speaker_heading: TOM (0.S.)
dialog: (from back of house)
text: GARY! YOU SON OF A BITCH!
dialog: 94.
text: Gary's hand reaches out and caresses a curtain.
text: The budgies in the cage begin CHIRPING wildly.
speaker_heading: QUICK POPS:
text: 1) Gary SMILES as he yanks down the curtains in his brother’s
text: house. There is no Carl. He then opens the door and something
text: LARGE begins to push through the quilt protecting the
dialog: threshold.
text: 2) Gary steps on the front porch of Greg’s house at night,
text: noticing the wan light leaking out of corners of covered
text: windows. He then takes a knife and cuts his own arm, feigning
dialog: emergency to get Malorie to let him in.
text: 3) Gary peels off his blindfold in the tunnels with Cheryl,
text: Lucy, and Tom. He SMILES as they all stop in their tracks,
text: the bird inside the box chirping and fluttering in panic.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC ROOM
text: The women push. They strain. They sweat.
text: The blood vessels in Malorie’s eyes burst, making her look
text: extremely bloodshot.
text: Felix keeps reading from the parenthood book’s chapter on the
text: childbirth part and checking on the women.
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Little more...
text: A muted BLEATING. Non-localized.
text: Malorie stops pushing. Looks around.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Is that my baby?
text: Gasping for breath, the women both stop and listen.
text: No, not bleating. SCREAMING.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: What is that?
text: Felix stares at the attic door, behind Malorie. Unsure of
text: what’s happening downstairs he placates them with:
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Okay ladies, keep going, come on--
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Is it out? Is it over?
text: Something CRASHES heavily downstairs. And then the sharp,
text: shrill SCREECH of someone’s voice.
text: Another CRASH shakes the dust off the attic rafters.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Felix, please...
text: Felix moves for the stairs--
speaker_heading: FELIX
dialog: Hang on.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Don’t go please wait--
text: But he passes her, bumping the rolling cart with the lantern.
text: The table drifts to the back wall as Malorie hears Tom’s
text: footsteps down the stairs...
text: The lantern illuminates the wall, exposing DOZENS OF CHARCOAL
text: SKETCHES OF MONSTERS. All shapes and sizes. Creatures with
text: hideous bodies and human faces. Things with no discernible
text: head or tail. Beasts inspired by snakes, and spiders, and
text: squid, and grizzly bears. Thin, gangly beings with hollow
text: heads. A coterie of teeth, venom, and unblinking stares. The
text: entire wall is papered with the artwork.
text: Malorie shudders in shock at it.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: You all got stories. Mine is the
dialog: worst of all.
dialog: (leans close)
dialog: Because I’m immune.
text: Malorie gazes, wide-eyed, at the wall, and then at Edgar.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: You've... seen one?
text: Edgar nods. Nearby Olympia makes a noise as she pushes again,
text: somewhere between a cry and a groan.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (calling)
speaker_heading: FELIX!
dialog: (back at Edgar)
dialog: You drew it? One of those things?
dialog: 96.
text: Edgar admires his work. Then faces Malorie.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
text: If only it looked like one of them.
text: From downstairs, more SHOUTS, and then a thunderous GUNSHOT.
speaker_heading: TOM (0.S.)
dialog: Gary has pulled down the curtains!
text: Malorie recognizes Tom’s voice and wants to get up right now
text: and go to him. But she can’t move from her bed.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Tom! Is that you?! Tom--
text: More loud noises downstairs. And then footsteps.
text: The door opens, and Tom steps through. He looks unhinged,
text: holding the shotgun Donald had moments ago.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: The babies are coming now?
text: Malorie holds out her hand, and Tom goes to her side,
text: gripping it.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I’m early, we're both early, it
dialog: just started and then my water
dialog: broke and I don’t want it now--
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Hey hey hey, shh, look at me.
dialog: You're fine. You’re going to make
dialog: it. Okay? And right now I have to
dialog: go back down and stop Gary before
text: one of those things comes in.
text: Malorie tightens her grip on his hand.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Don’t go. Don’t go.
text: Tom leans down and kisses Malorie on the forehead.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I won’t let them hurt you.
text: And then he leaves, shutting the door behind him.
text: Malorie, in tears, shakes her head and calls Tom’s name, but
text: her voice is drowned out by Olympia crying out, and then--
dialog: 97.
text: A newborn infant’s cry. She’s had her baby.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: (to Malorie)
dialog: Your turn.
text: Malorie pushes. Her own baby gasps for air under the throw.
text: Nearby, Olympia pulls at the sheet over her lap, searching
dialog: for her baby.
text: The old man reaches under the throw and lifts out Malorie’s
text: child, still attached to the umbilical cord.
text: Terrified of Edgar, Malorie takes the baby protectively--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Give him to me--
text: Edgar smiles with bloodied hands.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: It’s a boy.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Mine is a girl! I had a girl.
text: She's laughing as she cries, in hysterics.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Starin’ down one of these things
dialog: didn’t break me. Watching my wife
dialog: turn on our two kids nearly did.
dialog: She gored ‘em both with a kitchen
text: blade, then cut her own throat.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: She sang to us as she did it.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Shut up shut up--
text: And then another heart-stopping GUNSHOT, this time from the
text: second floor. And in that vacuum of silence...
text: Sounds from the stairs. Creaking of steps.
text: And the sound of the door opening.
text: Edgar looks up, toward the door. And frowns.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Don’t you come up here.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: Tom?
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Don’t look--
text: Olympia looks.
text: Still on her back on the mattress, she tilts her head back to
text: look toward the stairs upside-down.
text: Her eyes widen, and her mouth opens in a gaping smile.
text: But with her head leaned back, it’s a macabre frown.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Olympia no no--
text: Olympia doesn’t blink, doesn’t look away from the thing at
text: the top of the stairs.
speaker_heading: OLYMPIA
dialog: You're not so bad...
dialog: You're not so bad at all!
dialog: (then)
dialog: You wanna see my baby?
text: Malorie closes her eyes and puts her hand over her boy’s
text: face. She calls out to Olympia--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Cover the baby’s eyes-- Olympia,
dialog: please-- cover her eyes--
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Go on, get out of here. Git.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Please, please-- Olympia, just let
dialog: me hold her for a moment...
text: Olympia SNARLS. Chews on something just out of view, her body
text: hunched over her child.
text: Malorie reaches out with one arm, keeping the other on her
text: own baby, close to her chest. But she doesn’t open her eyes.
speaker_heading: EDGAR (0.S.)
dialog: You're doin’ good, Malorie. Better
dialog: than my wife did.
text: Floorboards creak again. And then that raspy breath. Inches
text: away. Close enough to agitate Malorie’s hair.
text: Something wet tears. Splashes.
text: Olympia’s bloody hand grabs a binder clamp.
dialog: 99.
text: The baby Girl’s face is covered by the bloody bedsheet.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Olympia... Talk to me...
text: But she doesn’t. Instead, Olympia moves to the window.
text: Malorie refuses to look.
text: Edgar gets to his feet, his leg quavering under the effort.
text: Staring down the thing just outside view.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: Nobody else is lookin’ at you
dialog: today, now git.
text: Trailing a chewed-through umbilical cord gushing vital fluids
text: from her insides, Olympia yanks a blanket off the window.
text: Gray morning light hits Malorie in the face. She shelters her
text: eyes with her arm. The window creaks open.
speaker_heading: EDGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you doing, woman--
text: Olympia climbs up and sits on the ledge, facing inside.
text: She leans back like a diver going into the water--
text: And then falls out the window--
text: Edgar moves to stop her, but gets there a moment too late--
text: In anguish, Malorie screams--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: GET OUT OF HERE!
text: The thing just a few feet from her takes a step back.
text: The stairs creak.
speaker_heading: EDGAR
dialog: That’s it, go on outta here.
text: It retreats. Malorie still keeps her eyes closed. Messy with
text: afterbirth. Her breathing shallow.
text: Edgar leans close.
speaker_heading: EDGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: You did it.
text: Malorie shudders, clinging to her child. Edgar stands upright
dialog: and sneers:
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: EDGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: It was that new fella. Gary.
text: Malorie doesn’t answer. She’s beyond words.
text: Edgar limps for the door.
speaker_heading: EDGAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Gonna have to put him down.
text: At the top of the stairs, the old man looks back at the room
text: a final time. And on Malorie, alone with the two infants.
text: With that, he leaves.
text: Malorie shakes from the trauma. She hears the baby Girl let
text: out a weak cry from under the sheet.
text: With effort, Malorie finally opens her eyes and zeroes in on
text: the place where the Girl has been hidden.
text: She crawls to the other baby and cradles her with her own.
text: Malorie sits there.
text: Holding the two infants.
text: All is quiet.
text: No birds chirping.
text: No screaming or shouting.
text: No crashing of furniture.
text: The rain has stopped.
text: Just Malorie and the two newborns. And then...
text: A phone rings.
text: Malorie’s posture stiffens. She waits.
text: It rings again.
text: She sees the scissors on the floor. The clamps.
dialog: And the towels.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALL - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie descends, still cradling both babies.
text: She wears a stretch of towel as a blindfold.
text: The boy and girl are covered as well.
text: And she’s snipped and clamped her umbilical cord.
text: From the ground floor, the phone continues to ring.
dialog: 101.
text: Carefully, cautiously, she crosses the hall.
text: Her foot steps on a body. In a pool of blood.
text: Malorie trembles. And steps over the body.
scene_heading: INT. FOYER - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie descends the last few steps and nearly slips on more
text: blood in the entry. The front door hangs wide open.
text: She passes by another body on the floor.
text: The phone rings. For the tenth time.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Malorie sits down on the couch.
text: Felix’s body is seated on the other end of the couch.
text: But his head is missing.
text: The phone rings loudly on the coffee table.
text: Malorie’s hand reaches out... finds it.
text: Just as it stops ringing.
text: Malorie brings it to her ear, hopeful--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Hello? Hello?
text: A faint dial tone bleeds out, audible from here.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: No... No no no--
text: She hangs up and presses asterisk-6-9.
text: Holds the phone to her ear again, in time to hear the high
dialog: octave three tones preceding:
speaker_heading: AUTOMATED VOICE
dialog: (filtered)
dialog: We're sorry but that number could
dialog: not be reached. Please hang up--
text: With a trembling hand, she sets the phone down.
text: And she begins to cry.
text: With head in hands, she sobs.
text: All the while, blood seeps toward her from Felix’s body.
dialog: 102.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK LAWN - DAY
text: The sun hangs low over the lawn, where a fire burns.
text: A bonfire made of a pile of bodies.
text: Malorie stands a dozen paces away, hearing it burn.
text: She wears a scarf over her eyes.
text: And carries a pole on her shoulders.
text: Water jugs dangle from the pole.
text: In this pose, in this light, she looks like Lady Justice.
text: Among the burning bodies: The ADOPTION FLYER she took from
dialog: the hospital so long ago. “You have a choice!”
text: It catches fire.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
dialog: The months tick by:
text: 1) Malorie opens the phone book, red pen in hand.
text: 2) Malorie holds infant Girl in a rocking chair to the sounds
text: of Frank Sinatra on the radio. The house is a mess.
text: 3) A fire burns in the fireplace. The babies are close for
text: warmth. Malorie’s breath is visible.
dialog: 4) The phone book. The final name in the Z alphabet. Last one
text: in the book gets a red line through it.
text: 5) Malorie hangs up the phone in defeat. Utterly alone.
scene_heading: INT. NURSERY - NIGHT
text: A year later. The two crib-forts sit in the room.
text: Covered by a blanket.
text: Malorie arrives. Trembling.
text: Holding a hypodermic needle in her hand.
text: Outside, something bumps against the house.
text: A tree, maybe. The wind.
text: Malorie approaches the cribs.
text: Draws back the blanket.
text: Inside: Boy and Girl. Each maybe a year old.
text: Asleep. Fitful sleep.
text: Malorie cries silently.
text: Reaches in with the needle.
dialog: 103.
text: The pointy tip is charred black from heat.
text: Pointed straight down. Shaking in her grip.
text: It hovers over Boy’s left eyelid.
dialog: An inch. Less.
text: Malorie’s fingers reach and open Boy’s eye.
text: A breath from receiving the needle.
text: Something creaks nearby. Something stirs.
text: Malorie looks up and recoils in surprise.
text: Girl sits up in her crib.
text: Looking at Malorie. Head tilted.
text: Just watching. Innocent. Confused.
text: Malorie puts a hand to her mouth.
text: Drops the needle.
text: Slumps against the wall. A mess.
text: For a long time, she sits there.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: Eyes and nose red from tears, Malorie steps in.
text: Stares at her reflection in the mirror.
text: She reaches out, picks up a pair of scissors.
text: Brings them to her face...
text: And then starts to cut her own hair.
text: PANNING to the mirror...
text: It’s now the end of the haircut.
text: Short-cropped. A warrior’s cut.
text: Malorie hardens her face.
text: She’s made a decision: Survival. But on her terms.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
dialog: Two years later.
text: Boy and Girl are both nearly the age of the opener.
text: Playing with simple toys.
text: Sounds of HAMMERING nearby.
text: Malorie reinforces a wood plank over a window.
text: Muscular arms. Still short hair.
text: When she’s done, she steps back.
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: All right. Going out for dinner.
dialog: You remember the rules?
text: The children nod. Malorie nods back, like a sergeant.
text: She crosses past a wall now covered with a giant Riverbridge
text: city map, likely taken from a municipal building. The map is
text: riddled with push-pins. She’s covered a lot of ground.
text: Before Malorie leaves for the back door--
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Malorie?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Yes, Girl.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Do you think you’1ll get to letter
dialog: ‘K’ again today?
text: The phone book rests open again on the coffee table.
text: Its place marked by the pen.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We'll see.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - DAY
text: Quiet. Stillness.
text: Malorie crouches, following a string.
text: Her boots crunch under the winter ground.
text: The string leads to a rabbit trap.
text: Something furry caught inside.
text: Malorie feels it: A dead rabbit.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK LAWN - DUSK
text: Malorie, still blindfolded, carries two dead rabbits tied
text: together, marching cautiously toward the back door.
text: Her hand searches for the fence line.
text: Finds it. Her familiar landmark.
text: She takes a breath. Distantly...
text: A phone rings.
text: Malorie perks up. Hurries for the back door.
text: Abandoning the rabbits.
text: She gets to the back door.
text: Struggles with the keys. Rinnnng!
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: The phone rings loudly in here.
text: Boy and Girl stand arguing about it.
text: A door slams and Malorie runs in--
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: We don’t know what to do!
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I got it--
text: She grabs the receiver and answers, breathless--
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hello!
speaker_heading: RICK (V.O.)
dialog: (filtered)
dialog: Hello, is this Malorie?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Yes! Yes, that’s me, yes.
speaker_heading: RICK (V.O.)
dialog: (filtered)
dialog: My name is Rick. I got your
dialog: message.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Rick what?
speaker_heading: RICK (V.O.)
dialog: Holland.
text: Malorie flips through the book to the ‘H’ entry.
text: ECU: “Holland, Richard.” Circled in red.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Oh thank god.
dialog: (emotional)
dialog: Where are you, Rick? Are you safe?
dialog: Are... are you with others?
dialog: 105.
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: RICK (V.O.)
dialog: We're a community here. Seventy-
dialog: three of us and counting.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Rick... Do you, do you have room
dialog: for three more?
text: Asked as if it were the most important question on Earth.
speaker_heading: RICK (V.O.)
dialog: Of course.
text: Malorie sits down. Suddenly weak-kneed.
text: Boy and Girl huddle close.
speaker_heading: RICK (V.O.)
dialog: Where are you coming from?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
text: Riverbridge. Upper east side, near
dialog: state highway one-eighty.
speaker_heading: RICK (V.O.)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You'd have to take the river.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: What’s wrong with the river?
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY
text: Catching up to the trip on the river.
text: Late in the afternoon. The sun hangs low.
text: Short-haired Malorie rows.
text: Girl plays with her three puzzle pieces.
text: They all hear something, ahead. Rapids.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Children? It’s nearly time.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: To look.
dialog: This is what’s wrong with the river.
text: Girl whips her head around at Malorie-- “look?”
text: Malorie steadies the boat with the oar. Slows down.
dialog: 107.
text: Birds SQUAWK and CAW in flight overhead.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: There are many rocks here, and the
dialog: water is shallow in places. But we
dialog: need to land before the waterfall.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I thought we weren’t supposed to
dialog: look. Ever.
text: Malorie takes a breath.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: This time is different. We can’t
dialog: miss the first landmark. The
dialog: statue. Remember the steps?
speaker_heading: GIRL
text: Eighty-six, forty-four, thirty.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Good. Landmarks?
speaker_heading: BOY
text: Statue. Bridge. Car. Stone.
text: A hundred migrating birds above them.
text: All making noise now.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Malorie? Birds.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: That’s a good sign. It means
dialog: everything’s all right.
text: The row boat gently moves downstream.
text: Overhead: The birds chatter, in migration.
text: It’s a chorus of normalcy.
text: The sound of the river rapids gets nearer.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: We're close. I am going to look
dialog: now. Okay?
text: Malorie grabs for her blindfold.
text: Hooks a thumb underneath it.
text: But a new sound gives her pause:
text: The birds. They sound more aggressive.
dialog: 108.
text: The chatter becomes a psychotic symphony.
text: CLOSE ON THE FLOCK in midair.
text: They crash headlong into each other.
text: They pick at their wings mid-flight.
text: They attack one another.
text: Beaks. Feathers. Blood.
text: Drops of blood land on Malorie’s face.
text: Around them: splashes. Everything is not all right.
text: Birds dropping like feathered meteors.
text: Boy and Girl tense up.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: They're falling out of the sky!
text: A blackbird crashes into the boat with them.
text: Wings convulsing. Neck broken.
text: Then: Their boat suddenly stops with a jolt.
speaker_heading: BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: We hit a rock.
text: In the shoebox, their budgie begins CHIRPING.
text: Girl stiffens in alarm. TIGHT ON her face:
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: No we didn’t.
text: The boat tilts slightly, from external weight.
text: And then that god-forsaken sound, close to our ears:
text: The signature, UNEARTHLY CRY of one of those things.
text: Malorie, Boy and Girl clamp their hands over their ears.
text: In the distance: A DOZEN MORE SOUNDS just like it.
text: Malorie grips the oar--
text: Then stabs in the direction of the noise--
text: She comes in contact with something. Resistance.
dialog: 109.
text: In retaliation, it capsizes the boat.
text: They all start to SCREAM as they go into the river--
scene_heading: FROM UNDERWATER:
text: Malorie splashes in, toppled off the boat.
text: BOY and GIRL drop in nearby, but travel faster underwater in
text: the current, their limbs wheeling for purchase--
text: Overhead, on the surface, the boat upends.
text: Malorie reaches out for Boy as he passes by--
text: Her blindfold still around her face--
text: And then the water cavitates at Malorie’s leg and something
text: SPLASHES in and grabs hold of her ankle--
text: But the foaming water and chaos is too much to get any sort
text: of distinct look at it-- is it a hand? A claw? It’s pale--
text: Boy and Girl drift past, still carried by the water--
text: Malorie kicks hard-- gets free, goes up for air--
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER'S EDGE
text: Boy and Girl cling to the embankment.
text: Boy climbs to shore and helps Girl up.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Malorie!
dialog: No response.
text: FARTHER BACK, Malorie emerges from the water, gasping for
text: air. Her blindfold has been torn away in the current.
text: She coughs, keeps her eyes closed.
text: Splashes behind her. Something advances.
speaker_heading: BOY (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Where are you?
text: Malorie launches in the direction of his voice.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Go! Find the statue!
text: Boy leads Girl off the shore, reaching ahead still
text: blindfolded, arm outstretched until it touches--
dialog: 110.
text: A FIGURE towering over Boy.
text: Made of stone.
text: The Virgin Mary, eight feet tall.
text: Boy touches it. Confirms it.
text: Then he calls out to Malorie:
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Here, it’s here!
text: ON MALORIE, trying to zero in on Boy's voice.
text: She changes course and moves for them--
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Keep talking!
speaker_heading: BOY (0.S.)
dialog: We're at the statue!
text: Behind Malorie-- sound of something reaching shore.
text: And farther back-- MORE splashes.
text: Five. Ten. A dozen. All zeroing in on them.
text: Boy and Girl stand at the statue, full of fear.
text: Remarkably, Boy still has the shoebox with budgie inside.
text: It CHIRPS in alarm, telling them what they already know:
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: They’re coming!
text: Malorie gets there first.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: I'm here, I’m here.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Malorie. I can’t run that fast.
text: All three know that. The creatures are moving in.
text: Malorie crouches down to speak close to them.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: You two follow the steps. Go. Now.
text: Boy doesn’t need to be told twice. He grabs Girl and goes.
text: But Girl’s head still faces Malorie, asking:
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: What are you going to do?
dialog: 111.
text: Malorie stands up and faces back the way they came.
text: At the sound of the dozen creatures closing in.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: COME AND GET ME.
text: Then she turns and runs in a different angle from her kids.
text: BOY'S FOOT stomps the ground until it finds a paved path.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Start counting.
text: He pulls Girl by the hand.
text: STAYING WITH BOY AND GIRL as they run, Boy clutching the box.
text: Girl counts to herself, her mouth moving--
text: Their feet slapping along a gravel path until--
text: Baseboards. Wood. A guard rail. A babbling brook.
text: They're on a bridge. Still running.
text: Girl’s arm cracks against the railing.
dialog: Boy course-corrects.
text: After the bridge the path intersects a road--
text: And ahead: a stalled CAR in the ditch.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Eighty-two, eighty-three--
text: They're early. Boy collides with the car.
text: They both get their breath. Boy shouts back:
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Car!
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Are we going?
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Wait.
text: They breathe hard.
text: FINDING MALORIE running blindly but full-tilt through tall
text: grass, small branches of trees whipping her.
text: STAYING WITH MALORIE like we did with Boy and Girl--
dialog: 112.
text: She keeps her arms outstretched--
dialog: Moving fast--
speaker_heading: MALORIE’S POV
text: Black. Her breath is hard and heavy.
text: Her heartbeat is strong, palpable.
text: The sounds of her feet crunching in tall grass.
text: In one forward speaker, distantly: Boy’s voice.
speaker_heading: BOY (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Malorie!
text: Malorie pauses.
text: The monsters stampede behind her: A mountain of sound,
text: crashing foliage, snapping branches. Getting closer.
text: The sound of Malorie’s feet thump again until suddenly--
text: A GLIMPSE OF THE WORLD as Malorie trips into the brook just a
text: few feet from the bridge, eyes flitting open on the way down--
speaker_heading: MALORIE (0.S.)
dialog: Oh god--
speaker_heading: ON MALORIE
text: Hitting hard in the brook, clamping her eyes shut again.
text: But this is just a little stream full of rocks. Her arm is
text: cut and possibly broken by the fall.
text: STAYING WITH MALORIE again as she gets up and climbs the
text: other bank of the stream. Breathless.
text: Trees bend and fall into frame behind her. Crashing.
text: One comes down frightfully close to her. A hailstorm of
text: leaves descend around her.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Keep running!
scene_heading: ANGLE ON TREETOPS
text: The monsters plow through the wilderness.
text: Then sounds of them crossing the brook in pursuit.
text: Always just out of frame.
scene_heading: FINDING BOY AND GIRL
text: Running. Along a corridor made of barbed wire.
text: Like threading a needle. Purposefully set up.
dialog: 113.
text: They’re not on a road now but smooth concrete.
text: Like the entry to a museum or school.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Forty-one, forty-two, forty-three,
dialog: Boy, stop!
text: Boy skids to a stop.
text: They're still in the barbed-wire corridor.
text: Boy reaches, pulling Girl three steps further, into a corner
dialog: where the wire dogs right--
text: And a large stone PLACARD is set into the walkway.
text: His hand touches and pulls Girl to face their right.
text: As they run this final corridor, they count together.
text: REVEALING the text on the placard as Boy and Girl run toward
text: a set of double doors thirty paces ahead--
text: JANET TUCKER SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND
scene_heading: TIGHT ANGLE ON MALORIE
text: Running. Lost. Eyes squeezed shut.
text: Bleeding from cuts. Favoring one leg.
text: The monsters thunder behind her like a herd of buffalo.
text: Then-- the inevitable. Malorie trips.
text: Takes a hard spill on the ground.
text: PRESSING IN ON MALORIE'S FACE
text: The earth trembles around her.
text: Shadows of misshapen feet pass by, shark-swift.
text: All the while she keeps her eyes shut.
text: Shaking in terror.
scene_heading: AT THE SCHOOL ENTRANCE
text: Boy and Girl reach the doors just as a door opens.
text: RICK steps out to steer them in, built like a lumberjack,
text: both eyes full of cataracts. He’s completely blind.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Children! In here!
text: Girl rushes to the sound of his voice, lets him steer her
text: through the doorway inside.
dialog: 114.
text: Boy reaches Rick but stops short of going in.
text: Instead, Boy turns and shouts out toward Malorie:
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Malorie!
scene_heading: TIGHTER ON MALORIE’S FACE
text: Among the rasping of the creatures surrounding her.
text: Through it, the distant voice of Boy.
text: One of those THINGS turns her over on her back.
text: Shadows fall over her face.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Stay. AWAY.
text: She finds her strength again and rises.
text: Clutching something in her fist. A knife.
text: She raises it in threatening gesture--
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not going to look at you.
text: Then she turns the knife blade on herself.
text: Holds its tip a centimeter from her eyelid.
speaker_heading: MALORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’1l make sure of it.
dialog: Beat.
text: Remaining TIGHT on Malorie, glimpsing only briefly one of
text: those things behind her, blurred, moving unlike anything that
dialog: lives in this reality.
text: Sounds of movement, around her.
text: She presses the blade to her lid. Piercing it enough to
text: elicit a drop of blood.
text: The monsters all retreat. As if they somehow know, as the one
dialog: did in the attic: She won’t look.
text: With that, Malorie collapses again to the ground.
text: PULLING BACK AND UP, revealing more of the world around
text: Malorie. The creatures always just offscreen.
text: Their shadows from the sun dance over her body, elongated and
text: distorted beyond accurate description as they retreat.
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: BOY (0.S.)
dialog: Malorie! Get inside!
text: Boy’s voice registers in Malorie’s ears.
text: She raises her head.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL - DUSK
text: Peering out through the narrow opening in the door, over
text: Rick’s shoulder.
text: Malorie limps the final steps of the barbed-wire corridor,
text: drawn to Rick’s voice.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Just a little further, that’s it.
text: She steps inside with Rick’s guidance, and Rick shuts the
text: door behind her.
speaker_heading: RICK (CONT'D)
dialog: There you go. You’re safe now.
text: Malorie dares to open her eyes. This is her destination. If
text: it’s not safe now, there’s no other option.
text: She does.
text: The school grounds are protected by high walls and overhangs,
text: letting in natural light.
text: The main space is a garden-like courtyard with trees, the
text: roof built as a chain-link cage, creating a kind of aviary.
text: More PEOPLE OF ALL AGES gather to greet them. Some of them
text: blind, but many who are sighted. Refugees, like Malorie.
text: Malorie takes it in and starts to weep.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Can we look now?
text: Malorie pulls Girl and Boy close. With a wet face:
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Yes, you can look.
text: She pulls at their blindfolds.
text: Boy and Girl look around at all the people. And at the sky.
dialog: And the trees.
dialog: 116.
dialog: They want to look everywhere at once. Because they’ve never
text: seen any of it before. Rick crouches down beside them.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: And what are your names?
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Boy.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Girl.
text: Rick tilts his head. What? But Malorie turns the children to
dialog: face her.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: No.
dialog: (to Boy)
dialog: Your name is Tom.
dialog: (to Girl)
dialog: And yours is Olympia.
text: Boy and Girl look at Malorie with wonder. Girl gasps.
text: Their faces light up like it’s Christmas morning.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Tom? My name is Tom? Tom!
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: I have a name?
text: Malorie nods. The wall she’s put up in front of her emotions
text: begins to crack, with a hitch in her breath.
text: She reaches out and brings them both close, into a hug. It’s
text: the kind of affection they’ve craved for years. They hug
text: back, clinging to Malorie, not wanting to break the spell.
text: When they part, Boy and Girl then run to the other CHILDREN
text: in the group and begin introducing themselves with their
text: names, like it’s a new outfit they’re showing off.
text: Boy remembers the budgie in the shoebox, goes to it and opens
text: the lid of the box.
text: Inside: The budgie flutters. Looks sideways at Boy.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Go on, now.
text: He picks it up in cupped hands, and lets it free.
text: The little bird takes to the air, now in the safety of this
dialog: outdoor aviary.
dialog: 117.
text: Rick puts a gentle hand on Malorie’s shoulder.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Are they both yours?
text: Malorie finally owns it. Watching the children look wide-eyed
text: at the world, she smiles proudly through her tears.
speaker_heading: MALORIE
dialog: Yes. I’m their mother.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
text: THE END.
dialog: 
